
HOW COMPUTERS WORK

The first thing that happens is , electricity goes into the computer .  The electricity 
is supplied by the wall socket , which is in turn connected to the electrical company 
via big overhead wires with squirrels running on them .

A question many people ask , after a couple of martinis , is: How come the squirrels 
don't get electrocuted ?  To answer that question , we need to understand exactly what an 
electrical circuit is .

When you turn on a switch , electricity flows through the wire into the appliance , 
where it is converted via a process called electrolysis into tiny microwaves .  These fly 
around inside the oven area until they locate the Hungry Hombre Heat 'n' Eat Hearty 
Burrito entree ; they then signal the location to each other by slapping their tails in a 
distinctive pattern .

The workers , or drones , then penetrate the fallopian tubes and swarm around the queen ; 
this causes the rapid warming that makes the entree edible and leads , via amino acids , 
to digestion .  

This is followed by grunting and flushing , with the outflow traveling via underground 
pipes to the sewage treatment plant , which in turn releases purified water into the river , 
where it is used to form waterfalls , which rotate the giant turbines that produce the 
electricity that flows through wires back to your appliance , thereby completing the 
circuit .

So we see that squirrels have nothing whatsoever to do with it . There is no need for 
you to worry about squirrels ; believe me , they are not worrying about you . A much more 
productive use of your time , in my opinion , would be to focus your full attention on the 
question at hand , which is:

HOW COMPUTERS WORK

Computers are essentially counting machines , but they do not count the way we do . We use 
what mathematicians call the " base 10 " numbering system , which means that we go zero , 
one , two , three , four , and so on until we reach 10 , and after that point we can no 
longer use the Express Lane .

Granted , there are gray areas . For example , if you're buying two rutabagas , you can 
count them as one item , because the cashier is going to weigh them as one item and ring 
them up as one item . 

But the same does not hold true for cereal : If you're buying a box of Shredded Wheat  
and a box of Froot Loops , that is clearly two separate items .  Please don't try to tell 
me, "But they're both cereal, so really it's just one item!" The Supreme Court rejected that argument years ago.*

* The specific case was Mrs. Bernice A. Whackerdorfer v. A Bunch of Really Angry People 
Waiting in Line Behind Her .

Oh yes, I've stood behind extra-item people like you in checkout lines !  I know your 
little tricks !  

You get in the Express Lane with your " 10 items" that are really closer to 15 or 16 items ,
 and then , just when you reach the cashier , you suddenly realize that you forgot some 
vital item on your list , 

and so the entire Express Lane has to stand there twiddling its thumbs while you send your 
8-year-old child off on a scavenger hunt to find the Cheez Whiz Lite , which , to judge by 
how long your child is gone , is located somewhere in the Amazon River Basin ; 

and when your child finally returns , you send him or her back , because he or she brought 
the 16-ounce jar , and your coupon ( of COURSE you have coupons !) is good only for the 
12-ounce jar ; 

and when you FINALLY are ready to pay , then and ONLY then do you start rooting around for 
your checkbook ( of COURSE you pay by check !) and then you ask for a pen , and then you 
can't find your driver's license , and then you ask what the date is , and then you want 
to check to make sure that the cashier also deducted the coupon for the Happy Tabby 
Liver 'n' Chocolate Cat Treats , and 

DON'T YOU SEE WHAT YOU'RE DOING TO THE PEOPLE BEHIND YOU ?  DON'T YOU REALIZE THAT 
YOU'RE ONLY SECONDS AWAY FROM BEING ATTACKED BY A CRAZED MOB ARMED WITH POTENTIALLY LETHAL 
GROCERIES ?  

DO YOU HAVE ANY IDEA HOW MUCH DAMAGE CAN BE INFLICTED ON THE HUMAN BODY BY A FROZEN 
CORNISH GAME HEN ?

No , you're not thinking about that at all , are you ? You're stuck in your own 
self-centered , short-sighted little world , and it never would occur to you to consider 
any of the broader issues affecting society and the future of mankind , such as:

HOW COMPUTERS WORK
