Ai by Piet Defoe 11-08-2004 all rights reserved...

Ai stands for Artificial intelligence. The Ai takes the inputted sentence and 
translates the words. How the words are interpreted depends on the information 
in the files 'FirstInput.dat', first input and 'TranslationFile.dat', 
translation file.

When you have typed something into the input the Ai looks at the sentence and 
compares the words with words in the First Input file. If a word is found then 
the group number followed by the word will appear in the readout above the input 
box, if a word in the sentence is not found in first input then a 0 will appear 
in front of the word. Words with a 0 group are then looked for in the 
translation file'. If a word is found in first input then it would not be looked 
for in the translation file. If 0 rated words are found in the translation file 
then the Ai uses the information to create an answer and carry out any tasks 
that the sentence may contain.

Pre set words
Pre set words are words embedded in the program used to control Ai settings via 
the input
(Case sensitive)
EXIT 	= shuts down the Ai
RESTART = restarts the Ai
autoinputon	= turn on automatic input	
autoinputoff	= turn off automatic input
d1CheckBox13on and d1CheckBox13off control check box 13 in settings this enables 
a remote order to be acted on when the automatic input is turned off, turning 
off auto input also prevents network order from working as this function puts 
the order into the Ai input.

FirstInput.dat 
This file groups certain words in sections i.e. start command words are in-group 
2 and questions are in-group 3. Changing the contents of this file should be 
done carefully as the program understands the difference between the groups. The 
4 stars indicate a group and the length of each group including the stars must 
not exceed 254 characters 
As the TF grows we are finding that we are removing words sometimes this method 
of translating seems to get in the way then other times its seems like a very 
reliable and simple method which has its uses.

TranslationFile.dat 
This file contains detailed information about a word and instructions for the Ai 
to carry out abbreviated to TF

1. Translation Mode
sets how the sentence is translated. This is used to change the translation 
method once the Ai has reached the TF routine (After Preset words, Fi, etc...). 
Usually set between 0 and 4. 
0to4=Ai uses the usual TFroutines to translate which is: FirstPassTF, 
SecondPassTF maybe ThirdPassTF and maybe FourthPassTF, if more than 5 then the 
Ai will use FirstPassTF, FithPassTF, maybe ThirdPassTF and maybe FourthPassTF 
thus replacing  SecondPassTF with FithPassTF. SeconPassTF  does a lot of the 
translation processing. This means that the functionality of the Ai can be 
increased as a word in the sentence can get the Ai to translate in an entirely 
different way. The first function using this method is 'Translate'. 
5=translate, in the TF the word 'translate' has field 1 set at 5 and the 
translation routine FithPassTF is used. This translation method replaces the 
word found in 6 with the word/s in 7 and adds the word/s to the output without 
the first word, which held the code to change the translation Mode. In this case 
'translation' was the word and in TF 1 is set at 5. 
6=looks for the sentence word in field 12 and then builds up the output from the 
words in 6. This mode uses the last word found so the words in the description 
will be the most recently added. The number of times words are found means that 
an output will always be generated, though this output will be random and be 
void of intellectual translation. Having said that structures could occur as it 
all depends on the information in the TF and how that information is stored. 
7=puts input into output, the way it works is to replace the Ai output at the 
time of sending the output to the read out / say print routine with the inputted 
text this means that if the mode is changed to 7 any ware in the sentence the 
whole of the input is put in and all processing is ignored. NOTE changing to 
mode 7 does not stop processing of the input by the Ai it replaces the Ai's 
output with the input. As most of the processing is controled by the mode then 
this shouldent cause any problembs but if you change to mode 7 halfway through 
the sentence then every thing prior to the change will be processed in the 
normal way including system commands and puting in to input. This could be used 
to override the Ai output but keep the instructions of the Ai intact e.g. open 
help " i am opening help for you. This will open the help file and read out i am 
opening help for you
8=learning mode, when a B secntence code numonic is found, then the dictionary 
is checked for the word. If the word is found in dictionary.txt then the word 
and is, is put into the input, the timer turned off whilst awating the 
discription of the word to be typed in. Then press ok. The user dictionary is 
also checked and if the word is found in this then the word is ignored, this is 
so abreviations or incomplete, badley spelt words etc. dont start cloging up the 
translation. Bad words should rearly be cleared out of the TF but full stops 
commers if directley next to a word can turn the word bad as a space is needed 
each side of the word to define it to the translation routines, its quite easy 
for bad words to slip in. There is no reason for not adding the words to the TF 
but i prefer to clean up the bad words manually, im not shure if this will 
become more of a problem. 
As well as looking in the dictionary for words this routine also looks for words 
with no type defined ie. field 4 in TF = 1 or 0. The TF is opend usually in the 
right place then chang field 4, look in this file for the word type code, there 
are many word codes not just nouns and verbs, you can add your own word codes. 
The more varied the word codes the better the translation of the sentence code. 
There may be a limit or 180 different possable word codes as the number 
corisponds to the character map. The word code describes the word as a type ie. 
noun, verb, name, statement, number etc. At this time 01-01-2005 i have defined 
47 word codes

2. Command, 
activates a system conommand used to run another program, read a file or show a 
picture. System commands need a command word (group 2) before they will work ie. 
'open notepad' will work and notpad will open but 'notepad' on its own wont do 
anything. 		
1=System on 9, 		full path c:\allwork\AiNew\data\FirstInput.lnk in 9
put output text into 10 and extra system commands into 5 look at netview for an 
e.g.
2=copy 9 To 10 
3=show pictures on 9 pictures in ..\Ai\image\
10=delete file in 10 full path

3. Field 
3 is a bit like 2 but instead of performing system commands its used to carry 
out functions like combining files and creating html web pages. You need a 
function word to activate the function, line 18 in FI
0to2=unused,  
3=reply with 8 no function command need for 3 but you do need a function word 
before any of the following will work look in firstinput.dat 
4=read file on 10 		..\Ai\readout\
5=read file on 10 full path, 	e.g. c:\allwork\ainew\readout\readouttest.txt
6=read file in 10 into input 	full path e.g. c:\allwork\ainew\readout\order.txt
7=read file in 10 full path using long file routine. There is a max charater 
limit set at 20000 if the text has 255 charaters before a return then a gpf may 
be caused due to variable overload, this is unlikley to happen and would 
probabley only occur if you were trying to read a file that wasen't a normal 
text file. 
8=like 7 but looks for file in readout directory 
9 to 19 unused
20=create html, this turns the file in 9 into a HTML file so it can be read by a 
browser like internet explorer.It works by sanwiching the file in-between two 
other files which carry the html formating, the lengths of the files needs to be 
specified so you can use normal web pages that work but still be able to chop 
off at the point required for insertion of the file. Field 10=html output file, 
8=top of file, 11=bottom of file 7=top file length length of file in 8, 
12=bottom file length of file in 11
21=put output between two files same as file 31 TF but using this means you dont 
need to alter File 31 TF which is the Ai default. Make sure that 3 in 31 is set 
to 21 !. 
22=put field 9 in-between the two files
23=same as 21 but if there is anything in 9 then it is added to the buguining of 
the output

At the moment there is no gosub to the createHTML routine when 20 in field 3 is 
found. This means that the HTML page is only created if Create HTML is ticked in 
settings. Having it like this means that only one page can be created at a time 
reducing funcinality for program stability, this method of web page creation is 
being tested and might change.

4. what is the word type how should the Ai interpret the word. The Ai has a 
variety of different methods of translating the sentence every time the Ai goes 
through one of these routines the Pass value is increased and is displayed at 
the top of the window. The routines use the information on the word to determine 
the train of thought ie. when a Noun is found then it is assumed that the verb 
in the sentence is refering to the found Noun. 
	Grooping number. The Sentence Code variable is set acording to the words 
type a word in the TF that hasent been set will have a value of '[' in the 
Sentence Code and if it is 1=more info required, then the Sentence Cade numonic 
will be '\'. The first input file is checked first and all words with a capitol 
letter have been found in the first input file (firstinput.dat) im not sure how 
many numonics are avaliable i was still coming up with different charaters at 
255 . The idea of the numonic is to groop the words and to have more than 255 
groups would sugest the need to have sub groups this level of complexity is not 
rearly relevant at this stage of development.

Fi and TF Codes
Mnumonic only capitols in Fi
----| Number
----------| Word type	

C	1	UNUSED
D	2	start command
E	3	question
F	4	UNUSED
G	5	find
H	6	you your referance
I	7	compliments polite words curtious words
J	8	sware words rude words bad language
K	9	small words one or two letter words is, i, ip, etc...
L	10	programs
M	11	UNUSED
N	12	animals
O	13	discribe, translate
P	14	equal type words
Q	15	stop commands exit finnish etc...
R	16	is means
S	17	ok and yes
T	18	read speak
U	19	UNUSED
V	20	UNUSED

TF codes

[	0=more info required 	dont use for translation 
\	1=more info required 	dont use for translation 
]	2=Noun 			the last noun in a sentence is the main focus
^	3=Adjectiv 	
_	4=Verb 			connects with the Noun found
`	5=Adverb 		
a	6=Pronoun 		
b	7=Article 		
c	8=Conj 			
d	9=Int 			
e	10=plural
f	11=pronoun
g	12=abbreviation
h	13=prep
i	14=past
j	15=singular
k	16=prefix

o	20=createreply activates an internal routine in the program (NOT WORKING)
p	21=might be what 20 is ment to be needs checking
r	23=name no longer 1=3 its changing if you dont set then sentence code wont 
no that your talking about a name look below for more name info
s	24=absolute order forces a command like copy if a file exists then by 	
	default it wont be overwritten but if this is 24 then it will
t	25='are' from first input (this might change)
u	26=order to another computer
v	27='ta' from first input (this might change) also 'ta' is used to launch 
Text Aloud so its quite important that it works so it probabley merits 
having its own code
w	28=net or network
x	29=verb and noun, multiple meaning
y	30=verb, noun and adjectiv multiple meaning
z	31=verb and adjectiv
	32=sentence code
	33=test word
	34=adjective and noun
	35=noun and plural
	36=number
	37=past and past part
	38=poss pron
	39=varient
	40=special character or word maybe a code
	41=weard un describable word
	42=statement
	43=adjective and colloq
	44=pres and part
	45=does weard stuff
	46=past part
	47=symbol
	48=predicted adjective
	49=3rd sing. present 
	50=attrib, adj
	51=demons, pron
	52=noun and pron
	53=slang or word used in texing like errr or L8 for late etc.
	54=plus + (used to send comands to calculator)
	55=minus -
	56=devided by /
	57=times *
	58=commandwhat
	59=autoit script
60=patten that might be found in a sentence code looks in sentence code for 
patten used in TFsub01 look in Patten paragraph for more
	61=one letter word like e.g. 'a'
	62=function request so you don't need a function word bypass it
	63=animal
	64=sware word
	65=chemical symbol
	66=course, slang, noun

5. create reply referance or extra System command, usually set at 'na'.If not 
'na' then CreateACommand is set with contents as long as field 2 is set at 0. 
The contents of CreateACommand are compared with key words that trigger pre 
programed commands embeded in the program keywords are:

NameFound usually set by the value in 1 changed name set by 4
stopnetwork	switches off network message and network order
startnetwork switches on network message and network order
putininput puts the contents of 8 into the Ai input, (2 must = 0 err why..??)
put9ininput puts the contents of 9 into input used for long strings
writetofile puts the contents of 8 into the filename on 9
aion turns on ai output
aioff turns off ai output NOTE this only turns off the Ai's response it doesn't 
switch off functions opening files and programs
cleartoprint clears the ToPrint var which is what is sent to the output
EXIT shuts down the Ai
autoinputon	turn on automatic input,grabs text after you'vre finnished typing
autoinputoff turn off automatic input so you have to press ok to put into input
doesfileexist checks to see if the filename in 9 exits if yes read response in 7 
if no read response in 8
iffileexist	if filename in 9 exits put 7 into input if not put 8 into input
autoit autoit.exe must be in the path and .aut associated to it, then 8=autoit 
script to run, 7=reply if script found. Note this performs a system command on 8 
and looks in the scripts folder so file extension associations apply, this is 
another way of performing system commands here its used to activate autoit 
scripts
ReadControlTF resets the first 40 entries in TF things like time, date etc.
sendscreen sends the left hand screen as a picture using UDP at mo very slow and blotchey
sendtobrowser sends commands to the browser program, sends contents of field 10 to URL bar
filetoinput reads the file in 9 into input sentence by sentence every timer loop. The 
document should be a text doc with a return less than every 256 characters other wise the 
string variable will cause a GFP. If a GPF is caused paste the document into notepad, turn 
off world wrap and press return at the end of the line. The mode used to translate the 
input is the same as Auto Ai, field 1 in entry 32. 
	
Field 5 is also used for extra system commands EG. If 2=1 then the full path of 
the file to load into the program. e.g. if 2=1 & 9=notepad.exe & 5=c:\text.txt 
then the text file in C: will be opened in notepad

6. words that require a response ie. Word were looking For more info on 
words in the sentence with a 0 group

7. Mixed use used by mode 5 the translation of 6 used also for different things 
needing extra information

8. Mixed use but mainly used by commands set in 5, pattern and reply with 8

9. File commands, run system file, open name file, etc... look at 3 for more 
details

10. Mixed use mostley used for extra file commands and creating html files

11. Used mostley by pattern recognition or for holding extra information

NoSTM No Short Term Memmory, this is used to tell the short term memory scan 
routine not to use the word when trying to work out what we are talking about

12. dictionary discription of Word. Used when question and is ie. what is 
notepad will triger 12 to be sent to the output. Also used for cross refrencing 
Nouns and Verbs, generating random inputs and creating an answer no matter what 
by going deeper and deeper for some simalarity (NOT QUITE WORKING)

Settings
The top edit box is the full path to the network message file. 
The first line of this file is sent to the Ai output when 
'Check network messages' is ticked. 
Network Net IN If 'Check network order' is checked then the first line of the 
file must contain the password found in the 'Password' box if the same then the 
second line in the file is put into the Ai input. If the instruction is the same 
as the previous one then it won't be caried out, you can carry out repeate 
instructions using 7, look at 'order' in the Translation file. If the password 
is incorrect and 'Check network messages' is ticked then the incorrect password 
is sent to the output. 
The message file is a text file created in notepad or any text editor the Ai can 
read the file over the network. If you can open the file from 'Network 
Neighborhood' on your computer then the Ai can also read it, NOTE if the Ai is 
trying to read a file on another computer over a network and the network is down 
then the Ai will develop a short lock whilst it tries to find the file, this is 
normal but can be weard if your trying to press a button. Reading files over the 
internet has not been tested but should also be possable (using UDP would 
probabley be better) If a message file can't be found then the message 'No 
network message' will appear under 'Checking for a network message'.
'Create HTML file using info in field 31 TF' if ticked a HTML file (web page) 
can be created. The routine puts the contents of field 7 at the top then the 
text in the file netIN found in settings, then the file in 8 at the bottom 
9=output file name 10=number of rows in the top file and 11=number of lines in 
bottom file  
delete message after reading also allows overwrites of webpages. Because the 
network message routine only reads the first two lines of a network message 
file, if the file isen't deleted then any new messages wont be read as they are 
added to the end of the file. This also performs a deletefile command on a new 
webpage being created to ensure the file is created 
Flash icon 18 in TF flashes a icon on a remote or local desktop info in 18 in TF
Set focus on Net msg Sets the focus on the Ai when a new network message is 
received
Learning routine
Auto Ai using info in entry 32 TF
Log activity
Surpress Ai output
Del msg aft reading
Show word codes
Disable automatic input
Show web browser
Keep on top, Keep active

Net IN network in, the full path of the network message or order if on another 
machene use two \\ e.g. if were looking for a message in temp on dell-boi the 
full path is \\dell-boi\temp\aimsg.txt sharing or access must be allowed so the 
ai can read the file if not allowed no network message will be displayed
Net OUT network out, writes the input into the file if the file already exists 
then the file is overwritten. If '.htm' is found in the Net OUT filename then 
the output file is converted into a html (web page), using the information in 22 
in TF. 11=number of lines to copy, 9=location of top part of html doc, 10=output 
file name, both full path
Image this is the name of an image file in ..\Ai\image\ the name of the current 
image is displayed and the name is saved when the program is closed.
Password the password required before a network order will be caried out
Timer length milisec the main system timer controls how long to wate before 
putting text into input
Learning file length or short term memory if set at 10 then the last 10 inputs 
are remembered and if a repeat patten found then the patten is put into the TF
Timer Loop this is the extra loop for things like clearing the screen the 
variable is increased by one each time the timer activates when the timer loop 
value is reached then the extra commands are activated
UDP UDP varables are defined otherwise the program skips UDP varable setup and 
saves some resources. UDP is a protacol simular to TCP and works on ip networks. 
UDP is a cruder way of transmitting data over a network and doesen't have the 
same error checking as TCP it is a lot faster and is used for things like 
streeming media. The Ai uses UDP inorder to maximise the funcinality of the 
network communication. 
Send to ip the ip number of the computer the other Ai you are communicaing with 
is on
Remote Ai password the password of the Ai you are trying to communicate with, 
messages still get through but any extra commands are rejected
Receive from ip the ip number of your computer the local machine in-coming 
communications are sent to this ip number
Port All Ai's must use the same port number. Use a port number that no other 
program on the computer is using. Avoid common ports e.g. web browsers use port 
80 and many other programs use ports. I use a port number higher than 10000. 
Firewalls will also block access to the network if you get a pop up message 
saying do you want to let Ai access the network then this is the firewall asking 
if its ok for the program to access the net click yes to enable communication 
click no to stop the process.  If * Make Rx socket will appear for as long as 
messages cant be received a firewall blocking access will do this. Receiving is 
passive so you may need to type in something for the send routine to open the 
socket again more applicable with a firewall. UDP settings changed cause an Ai 
restart to make sure the new setting initialize correctly 


UDP status is the present status 0 or higher when receiving or transmitting 
usually at -1 which indicates no network activity at this time. 
If TX: <Ai output> appears and the UDP status and code don't change then there 
is a problem sending the message, a firewall blocking the message will do this. 
Password is either YES or NO if the Ai password has been found in the incoming 
packet usually NO until the password has been found.
Entry 9 TF, Field 9 is used to add extra codes to the string that is sent 
PII: = Put In Input, puts the output from the local Ai into the input on the 
network Ai which will then be processed by the remote Ai in the usual way.
PIO: Put In Output, puts the local Ai output into the Say-print routine on the 
remote Ai.
PIC: = get pic data (not fully tested not the best code in the world!!)


Log activity
This switches on logging a new log is created each day with the file name being 
the date stored in ..\Ai\logs\  the name of this log is put into the translation 
file under 'log' when the program starts. The input, output, date, time and 
reply quality are put in the log. Reply quality is a value between 0 and 5. This 
is what the Ai thinks is the quality / how good the reply is 0=no reply 3=the 
best at the moment. If a routine finds a good answer then it will set reply 
quality to say 3 which stops other routines from translating the sentence 
more.(NOT ALL ROUTINES ARE ONLINE YET SO ZERO RATINGS ARE STILL PRODUCED)
SC: = sentence code
RQ: = reply quality
Auto Ai puts a random input taken from 12 in a random file uses info in file 32 
field 2 = the random number max so don't make this number higher than the max 
length of TF, if the random number generator produces a number bellow 40 the 
then file number 33 is used if 2 is set to 32 then field 8 is put into the input 
text box instead of the usual which is 12
Suppress Ai output
Prevents the Ai's output from getting to the speech and print buffer but all 
other Ai routines still function
Del msg aft reading
Delete the network message after reading
Show word codes
Displays the inputted words and associated word codes in the mini display
Disable automatic input
Stops text being written into the input being put automatically into the input
Show mini display
Shows mini display, which is also used to show pictures
Keep on top, Keep active
On Timer Loop activates the program SetAiAsFocus.exe which tells the computer to 
set focus to Ai
Window this shows the window position if you move the window and want to retain 
the settings then you need to open the settings dialog to write the window 
coordinates to the setting file

TF
Things in or about the translation file hear after know as TF or tf
The TF holds almost all of the instructions for the Ai. This is so it can 
increase its funaciality by the amount of input received. At the moment the TF 
can only be updated manually, the original version had an automatic mode which 
produced random inputs, these inputs with there translations are still in the 
file and you might want to change them delete them etc. 

Some fields are set in place by the ai like the computer name is put into number 
3 and can be accessed by looking under name. 17 to 30 in TF are used by the 
pattern recognition and word codes routines. 
1 holds length of TF
2 location and name of today's log
3 computer name written by name uses the present computer name set up in network
4 date 
5 bad word response uses 8 puts bad word at end i.e. i dont unbderstand the word
6 start-path
7 help file location
8 not-user (have lost the info on this it might be obsolete)
9 UDP extra codes for sending in 9 PII: = Put In Input PIO: Put In Output
16 used to control Ai font defaults, box 1=size 10 point, 2=weight 300, 12=name 
Courier New. Only effects program when it's restarted
17 used to hold location of desktop in 9
18 flash icon on desktop info in 9 in 18 as it says in settings fields 9 and 10 
used 	field 9 is the name of the icon and must be in the root Ai folder. The 
shortcut is copied to the desktop folder on the other computer then deleted thus 
it flashes
20 – 30 used by pattern recognition 
31 used by create html
32 Auto Ai control file only used if Auto Ai is checked in settings. 1=mode, 
2=Top random file to include, 3=when B is found if 0="what does " + string5[c] + 
" mean " if 1=no response to a B, if 3=read out 8 
34 used by Output to file Net OUT 9 put in front of output 10 put after input 
used to encode for html only works when create html checked in settings
35 used by short Term Memory STM if word is a noun sanwitch between 8 and 9
36 used by short Term Memory STM if word is a verb sanwitch between 8 and 9
37 word found in STM and TF but its not a verb or noun sanwitch between 8 and 9
38 word found a few times in STM but not in TF ie. I don't know what it means
39 STM-reject is words rejected from the Short Term Memory scan. Words in field 
11 are excluded from the STM scan there must be a space on each side of the word 
for the word to be recognized.

The TF controls a lot of functions and how things work is dependent on the 
correct info in the TF. It's a good idea to make a backup when you first get the 
program so you can use it as reference on how to make instructions work. 
The TF is backed up every day with the backup file given the day name, as the 
extension e.g. 'TranslationFile.Mon' is Mondays translation file, the file is 
overwritten the next week. The Ai will still work even if the whole of the TF is 
blank but it wont is able to do much. The Ai wont run without a TF that it can 
write to, that's why it wont run off a cd without copying to the hard drive, 
this could change if it was needed I suppose, but without the TF the Ai is lost, 
its a bit like losing your memory totally....!
  
Cls = clears the screen by loading in cls.jpg in the image folder if the pic 
isn't there then nothing will happed no error message unless you set an answer 
try it. Set box 3 to number 3 (if 3 reply with 8) and type what you want the 
reply to be into box 8.

Reading out a file
	If you have more than 255 chars in a line then you will cause a gpf in the 
Ai as the variable overflows. This has been left like this for now to enforce a 
limit on the size of the input, this will probably change when checks have been 
added to some of the translation routines to stop them from having a seizure.

Sentence code
	This routine assigns each word in the sentence with a mnemonic (a letter, 
number or other character). Words found in the first input file are assigned 
with a capitol letter 
e.g. E is the mnemonic for a question word, B is the mnemonic for a bad word. 
Lower case mnemonics are set by using the TF the number in field 4 in the TF is 
translated into the mnemonic. If a paten is found in the inputs received then 
the paten is written into the TF into field  6, thus when the paten is search 
for then the paten can produce a response or be used and processed by all the 
routines using the TF. The translation from the mnemonics is set at a low 
priority when the reply is being processed. This means that the answer from 
paten recognition is used when no more preset answer could be found. NOTE if the 
mnemonics are only made up from words in the firstinput i.e. nothing recognised 
in the TF then the answer suffers a delay. If nothing is found in the TF then 
the normal routine is bypassed and the answer is put into memory for processing 
by another routine, which may or may not send the response to the output 
depending on what else is going on with the inputs and outputs. The response 
acquires a weight which is balanced by other answers with the highest sent to 
the output this doesn't mean that the answer is lost as it may take precedence 
as other replies are used. When the data file loops then eventually the answer 
will be lost.

More on names
	If field 4 in TF is 23 then a Name has been found and the Name routines 
are used.
Field 9=Name file usually .dat extension in ...\Ai\name\ folder, 7=response 
10=name type i.e. student. 
If the name type is student then the student routine is used. This routine at 
this time has 3 sub commands, which can be used to create lessons 
MESSAGEBOX: opens a message box with this text
AIOUTPUT: sends words to the Ai output
AUTOIT: name of script to run in ...\Ai\scripts\ opens an Auto It script, which 
can do many things, see the Auto It help file in the data folder see below for 
more on Auto It and how it is used by the Ai  

Patten Code
After the Ai has translated the input and got as far as the end of Creat A Reply 
routine if it still has no answer then it goes into the next stages the first 
being Patten recognition. This uses other varables to create answers depending 
on what patterns have been found in the sentence field. A patten is defined by 
field 4=60, if so then the Patten routine uses fields 7,8,9 and 11 in its own 
uniuqe way the output uses the values to create the output structure. Field 
7=first part of output 8=seconpart 9=used if not enough information ie. No verbs 
or nouns found. Field 11 controls which word type is used in the answer 
If 11=2 use the noun and what's in that words field 11
If 11=3 use the Adjectiv
If 11=4 use the verb and what's in the verbs field 11
If 11=5  use the Adverb
If 11=2+4 use the noun and the verb that are in the sentence
If 11=40 then the words after the pattern words are sent to the output

Short term memory (STM)
The STM is some times refered to as the Data Store. The length of the STM is set 
in the box called Learning file length in settings. The number is the number of  
previous inputs to remember and refer to when looking for repeat occourances of 
words when trying to work out what we are talking about. The word is first 
looked for using the Subject routine, if no match is found then the TF is 
searched. TF entries 35 to 38 are the various default outputs if nothing is in 
field 11 of the word found most in STM. If SKIP is in 11 then the word is 
ignored, if NoSTM is in 11 then the previous word is used.
35=STM noun
36=STM verb
37=Word found in STM and TF not a noun or verb
38=Word in STM but not in TF

Subject
The Subject routine attempts to work out what subject the conversation is about. 
The most frequently found word in the STM is compaired against key words that 
define the subject. There are 30 subjects at this time entries 41 to 71 TF are 
used for subjects. Field 11 holds the key words and the response if a word is 
found is in field 8 
