Something you might do while doing housework is dust the furniture.
An arch is a curved opening.
horse shoes is a fun game.
Coffee is a good after dinner drink.
Film is a medium for motion pictures.
Thought is an abstract ability of the human mind.
an arch is a very strong form of structure.
floppy disk is a storage device for computer data.
a hanger is a device for keeping clothes off the floor.
A Web browser is a software application that makes navigating the Internet easy for the user by providing a graphical user interface.
A platypus is a mammal that lays eggs.
imagination is a divine gift.
A shed is a place to store lawn equipment.
Emotion is a strong feeling.
Jam on bread is a low fat treat.
skiing on snow is a popular pastime. 
A marina is a place to keep boats.
A yellow ribbon is a sign of remembrance. 
a nightmare is a scary dream.
peace is a goal worth striving for.
HTML is a standard language for documents on the World Wide Web.
A company is a legal entity.
probability is a special branch of mathematics. 
sod is a big business.
A national anthem is a song that represents a country.
pool is a fun sport.
Marshall Mathers is a famous rapper.
A gold watch is a common retirement gift.
Finding another in concert with your belief system is a wonderful affirmation.
Gin is a strong drink.
A lip is a smooth protuberance.
Meeting a friend is a positive experience.
A yellow rubber duck is a common bath toy.
eight ball is a game of geometry.
water is a common name for H2O.
A mother is a very special person.
A loft is a room with a lot of space and light.
a pit is a deep hole.
A Stradivarius is an expensive kind of violin.
A snake bite is a kind of injury.
A van is a type of automobile that can be driven places.
Calgary is a city in Canada.
Rubber Duckie is a song by Ernie from Sesame Street.
lapis lazuli is a stone.
a computer is a personal assistant.
a tank is a machine used in war.
A check box is a small square box that appears in a dialog box for choosing an option.
a gym is a good place to lose weight.
A family room is a room in a house.
a yo-yo is a child's toy.
a Frisbee is an aerodynamic toy disc.
If you want to buy a hamburger then you should have some money.
Yachting is a sport for rich people.
a compact disc is a method of storing recorded sounds.
A ballot is a list of candidates for office.
A love seat is a chair that only has room for two people to sit on it.
Australia is a continent.
A motel is a place to stay.
A program is a specific instance of the class of programs.
a beanie baby is a small stuffed animal.
A marathon is a great distance.
You are likely to find French toast on a plate.
a study is a room in a house.
LISP is a simple, elegant and powerful language.
Frame relay is a simplified form of packet switching.
A pocket knife is a very useful tool.
Unix is a mainstay for universities and businesses that need scalable processing power.
An airplane seat is a chair for people to sit on and a term to describe your reservation for that chair.
Sweet William is a perennial. 
If you want to win a baseball game then you should hit the ball.
A paddock is a fenced, grassy field.
One of the things you do when you bungee jump from a high bridge is attach the bungee cords to your body.
Opening the hands is a natural reaction to counter the sudden rise of blood pressure caused by the sense of emergency.
A tray is a movable flat surface for carrying things.
Semantic satiation is a form of exposure therapy to thoughts.
A comfortable sofa is a great place for relaxation.
ivy is an ornamental climbing plant.
A doghouse is a place for a dog to sleep.
Friendship is a great place.
Hunger would make you want to eat dinner.
Rubber is a natural product that breaks down.
Begonia is an annual plant.
Jolt is a soft drink.
beavers are rodents.
nautilus is a sea animal.
soccer is a popular school sport.
Pricing of products is an art.
One of the things you do when you buy food is paying.
A Great Dane is a breed of dog.
Galveston is a city in Texas by the sea.
Making dulcimers is a dying art.
If you want to create something to help other people then you should be inventive.
Gambling is an addiction for some people.
Stem cell research is an important advance.
Fred Leftwich is a Labor candidate for Molonglo.
playing baseball requires a bat and a ball.
Tex-Mex is a cuisine noted for its spicy flavor.
A path is a way to get to a place.
ridicule is not good.
You are likely to find a frog in a pond.
recyclable paper is a type of paper.
dark green spreader yew is a plant.
A camper can sleep in a tent.
Gardening is a necessary activity to grow tomatoes.
One of the things you do when you apply for a job is attend an interview.
Something that might happen while planning a vacation is making a reservation at a hotel.
playing lacrosse is for having fun.
a motel is a place where one spends the night while away from home.
communication is a sign of intelligence.
a royal flush is a great poker hand.
You can use an Italian restaurant to eat spaghetti.
A person does not want to feel guilty.
A DNS server is a computer that keeps a database of domain names and their corresponding IP addresses.
A man and a woman are dancing. The man is wearing a tuxedo.
Something that might happen when you do housework is a clean house.
plants are in greenhouses.
A full moon is a beautiful object to look at with a telescope.
The effect of seeing a story is thinking about it.
Something you find on the floor is chairs.
You would open a gift because you want to see it.
One of the things you do when you wage war is attack opposing armies.
Sometimes tying your shoelace causes breaking it.
If you want to score a home run then you should swing the bat.
A manufacturer can market a product.
A pushmepullyou is an imaginary animal.
Something you find at a friend's wedding is cake.
a person wants happiness. 
Something you find on the rug is a stain.
VBG is an acronym for Very Big Grin.
Something you find in the fridge is grapes.
a counter is used for counting.
A person can plant a tree.
a loan is a way of borrowing money.
Something you might do while playing chess is move the king.
You can use a balalaika to make music.
Somewhere a computer can be is in a box.
Colorado blue spruce is a plant.
Something you find under a bridge is a bum.
The effect of going for a run is sweating.
horses can sleep standing.
Vegetables can't see.
One of the things you do when you paint a picture is sign it.
learning about science requires an open mind.
Energy is the ability to do work.
A son is a parent's male child.
Something you find under the table is feet.
You are likely to find a national highway in a nation.
One of the things you do when you send e-mail is type.
skiing is a great way to enjoy the winter and snow.
the bible is a book.
You are likely to find a keyboard on a desk.
anyone can voice their opinions.
Something you find on the street is lines.
You can use a swimming pool to swim.
The effect of going to another place in the same city cheaply is saving money.
a person doesn't want to have warts.
August is a month.
You are likely to find a bag in a grocery store.
a butterfly is an insect.
a person doesn't want have to go to war.
Sometimes driving your car causes a car crash.
the students go to school.
You would go to school because you want to learn.
animals can drink water.
a trigger is part of a gun.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking an examination is passing a class.
If you want to grow vegetables then you should buy some seeds.
soup is food. 
salad is food.
Something you need to do before you listen is stop talking.
The effect of taking a course is that you learn new things.
Something you find in the freezer is frost.
meeting interesting people requires socializing. 
A clipboard holds papers.
A fork can hold things.
You are likely to find a sloth in the Amazon.
You are likely to find a moistener in the bathroom.
You can use a cloth to dry dishes.
Something that might happen when you view a video is laughter.
going to a Laundromat requires dirty clothing.
You are likely to find a kitten in zoos.
The last thing you do when you live is die.
You are likely to find a reception in a hotel.
Glue can stick paper.
A person can board a plane.
A national interstate highway is a high-speed roadway which passes through at least 2 states.
a cell phone is for communication.
Something you find in the water is an eel.
a first class airplane seat is for rich people.
Something you find in a forest is leaves.
Something you find on a freeway is trucks.
Something you need to do before you propose to a woman is buy a ring.
You are likely to find bleachers in a stadium.
You can use castanets to make music.
If you want to go for a swim then you should put on your swim suit.
forks have tines.
You would have food because you want to eat it.
You are likely to find a channel in a river.
A steak house is a restaurant.
a refrigerator can cool food.
You are likely to find an one person chair in an office.
Something you might do while waiting in line is tap your foot.
A plant can grow in a garden.
Something that might happen while printing on the printer is a paper jam.
You are likely to find an eating place in the mall.
You would read a book because you enjoy reading.
Something you find in a plane is passengers.
If you want to stop standing in it then you should get out.
Something you need to do before you fly a kite is string.
You are likely to find a parking lot in a shopping mall.
You would make people laugh because you want them to be happy.
Something you might do while praying is talking to god.
doing the housework requires vacuuming.
a bean bag chair is for relaxation.
Something you find in a grocery store is milk.
The effect of going for a jog is getting exercise.
Something you might do while attending a classical concert is clap.
A garden is part of a house.
a mother can name a child.
hand luggage is used for travel.
The effect of playing a harp is music.
dogs can hear very high pitches.
crime would make you want to conduct a trial.
Something you might do while getting warm is rub your hands together.
a pool contains water.
Something you find in a container is food.
You are likely to find a liquor glass in a bar.
jumping out of a window is for escaping.
One of the things you do when you play poker is hold your cards.
a government can be corrupt.
Something you might do while lighting a fire is burn yourself.
Something that might happen as a consequence of praying is relief.
shopping is for buying things.
punching someone requires some anger.
An activity a musician can do is tune her guitar.
You are likely to find an envelope in a post office.
Something you find on the floor is tiles.
The first thing you do when you buy a shirt is try it on.
Some artists paint on canvas.
If you want to listen to the radio then you should plug it in.
a chess knight is used for playing chess.
One of the things you do when you send e-mail is type a message.
Something you find at confession is a sinner.
Something you find in a meadow is bugs.
Something you need to do before you buy fresh fruits and vegetables is have money.
A twig is a small tree branch.
You are likely to find a fungus in a moist place.
a living room is a room for relaxation.
Something you need to do before you write is get a pen and some paper.
Horse riding is an expensive hobby.
hourglasses are used to measure time.
Air is a mixture of oxygen and nitrogen.
You are likely to find a human in the world.
Playing music is a lot of fun.
a person is an animal.
your coach would make you want to play football.
weeding the garden is for gardeners.
Sometimes running causes shortness of breath.
books would make you want to learn.
You are likely to find a small dog in a cage.
riding a bike requires good balance.
If you want to clean the house then you should mop the floor.
Something that might happen when you pay by check is you show id.
Somewhere sand can be is in a sandbox.
Something you find at fairgrounds is a ride.
You are likely to find a pillowcase in a bedroom.
You would bring suit because you want to get even.
A kitty has paws.
having a checkup requires a lot of money.
Something you need to do before you drill a hole is drill.
The effect of giving assistance is improving circumstances.
One of the things you do when you talk to someone is taking a breath.
Something that might happen when you pretend is laughter.
Something you find at a school is a gym.
Something that might happen as a consequence of beginning work is you get paid.
a garden always has flowers.
Sometimes taking a break causes delay.
You are likely to find a churchyard in a town.
Sometimes standing up causes you to tire.
windows are transparent.
The effect of learning a language is better communication.
You are likely to find a letter slot in the post office.
You would get fit because you want to feel good.
Something you need to do before you eat dinner is buy food.
You can use a rocking chair to relax.
You are likely to find a billfold in a pocket.
You can use a BBQ to cook meat.
You can use a cooling device to cool things.
The effect of helping someone is improving a situation.
An activity a cat can do is scratch furniture.
Something you find at the airport is security checkpoints.
Something you need to do before you write a letter is get a pen.
running requires legs.
You would love someone else because you want to be loved.
Something you find at a soccer game is soccer moms.
a person wants more time to spend with her family.
You are likely to find a heifer in a cow pasture.
Something you might do while howling with laughter is slap your knee.
meeting girls requires you to be nice.
If you want to sell your new book then you should publish it.
You can use a band-aid to cover a wound.
Something you find at a carnival is cotton candy.
Something you find at a bar is a human.
You would visit other countries because you want to travel.
Time stops for no one.
You would cook a meal because you want to eat.
A radio studio is in a building.
Something you find at a wedding is a band.
doing the housework requires a mop.
a rock can be heavy.
a hardware shop is used for selling hardware.
You are likely to find meat in a freezer.
Friends can meet over lunch.
baseball is a spectator sport that we love to watch.
The last thing you do when you pay cash is get your change.
If you want to have a physical examination then you should take your clothes off.
a person wants good books to read.
Something that might happen when you drive your car is you fall asleep.
If you want to awaken then you should open your eyes.
Some conductors lead orchestras.
a screwdriver can turn a screw.
If you want to forgive someone then you should tell him.
You are likely to find a calendar pad in an office.
Insanity would make you want to wage war.
Something you find at a Internet cafe is a chat room.
watching TV is for relaxation.
If you want to kiss then you should kiss someone.
A marina is a place to keep boats.
Something that might happen as a consequence of acting in a play is stage fright.
playing a game of chess is for fun.
Something you find behind the refrigerator is dirt.
a brook is for fishing.
Something you find at a fair is a ride.
penguins live in cold climates.
Eagles are birds of prey.
riding a horse is for cowboys.
People wear pants.
learning requires an open mind.
A cook can measure some flour.
You would have a shower because you stink.
A quadruped is a four-legged animal.
You are likely to find a mini bar in a hotel room.
A blade is used for cutting.
Something you might do while living a life is learn.
A post office is a government building.
a mother is used for love.
dancing would make you want to hear music.
kitty is another name for cat.
You are likely to find a cow in a feedlot.
A blender is an electric appliance.
You can use scissors to cut.
a person doesn't want conflict.
You are likely to find a pillow case in a bedroom.
a first floor is for entering a building.
Something you find at the bottom of the sea is a shipwreck.
Satchel bags are used to carry things in.
Something you find at a train station is ticket windows.
Something that might happen when you write is you communicate.
Something you find in the cupboard is mugs.
You would attend a lecture because you want to learn something.
You are likely to find shampoo in a bathroom.
You would go somewhere because you want to see something.
Something you might do while committing perjury is tell a lie.
playing chess is for having fun.
An activity a cat can do is cleaning itself.
Something that might happen as a consequence of visiting other countries is you make new friends.
A finch is a type of bird.
You would eat in a restaurant because you want food.
You would have an epileptic fit because you want a pill.
Something that might happen as a consequence of socializing is making friends.
Something that might happen when you run twenty-six miles is you complete a marathon.
a wristwatch is used for keeping the time.
standing in a queue is for waiting for your turn.
a sailor can captain a ship.
If you want to do a crossword puzzle then you should sharpen your pencil.
the world is a confusing place.
Something you might do while being involved in an accident is panic.
a furniture dresser usually has drawers.
If you want to go to school then you should wake up.
Jupiter is the largest planet.
You can use a subway platform to wait.
Something you find on the roof is the fiddler.
Somewhere a boat can be is on a lake.
Something you might do while waiting your turn is hum.
You can use a credit card wallet to carry all your credit cards.
Steel contains iron.
Sometimes passing a class causes pride.
Something you find in class is desks.
a child is a young human.
Something that might happen as a consequence of fighting war is people dying.
You are likely to find a fast food chain in a city.
You can use acne medication to clear your skin.
Parents raise children.
A girl can flower into a woman.
A person usually has two ears.
You can use an organ to play music.
A person doesn't want a hangnail.
a cave is dark.
Something you need to do before you go to school is get dressed.
Something you find in a drawer is a pencil.
Something that might happen while improving your image is you shave.
Something that might happen when you run after the ball is catching it.
One of the things you do when you visit a museum is look at the paintings.
The last thing you do when you go to get a haircut is pay.
playing poker requires a deck of cards.
a bus stop is for getting off of a bus.
giving a plug is for promoting.
a person wants peace of mind.
The effect of running is moving fast.
You are likely to find a moisturizer in a bathroom.
swimming is for Exercise.
You are likely to find a cow in India. 
The effect of seeing old things is remembering.
Love is blind. 
Friendship is clairvoyant.
Hair falls out.
Something you find in the chemistry lab is a flask.
Something that might happen when you write a term paper is you research your topic.
A person can wave to their friend.
One of the things you do when you get some physical activity is sweat.
Something you might do while following a recipe is measure ingredients. 
winning would make you want to compete.
You would jog because you need exercise.
If you want to feed your family then you should buy food.
Mountain biking is an exhausting sport.
The effect of playing football is falling.
an adult can teach children.
There are nine known planets in our solar system.
You are likely to find a document folder in a file cabinet.
Gucci is an Italian designer of high priced clothing and accessories. 
Germs can spread disease.
a chess rook is for Playing chess with.
Something you find at the movies is candy.
a cooling device is used for lowering temperature.
You are likely to find a bill in congress.
Something that might happen when you stand in line is conversation.
You are likely to find a map in a glove compartment.
a first class airplane seat is used for travel.
toys can delight a child.
Axes are used for cutting wood.
a person wants many good friends.
Children love to play.
Something that might happen when you watch a film is you eat popcorn.
going to market is for buying.
You would attend school because you want to learn.
staying in bed is for recovering from illness.
The last thing you do when you have a shower is dry.
Plants use Chlorophyll to convert sunlight into energy.
A nucleus is part of a cell.
Typewriters are obsolete.
Something you find at a concert is seating.
termites can eat wood.
Something you find on the desk is typewriter.
Something you find in a suitcase is shirts.
The effect of fishing is catching fish.
a blackboard is sometimes green.
tripping would make you want to tie your shoelace.
a queen is used for ruling a country.
kissing someone is for showing love.
Pennsylvania is a state.
Vegetables are often green.
bill Clinton is a president.
A telephone is for talking to someone.
plant is used for decoration.
dark glasses are used for protecting eyes from the sun.
Sometimes adding up numbers causes headaches.
If you want to go for a swim then you should put on a bathing suit.
running in a marathon requires endurance.
Spiral pasta is an Italian dish.
Chili peppers are spicy.
Handling difficult people is a difficult task.
Something you might do while going on the stage is sing.
cloth is used for clothing.
You would wash your hands because you want to clean your hands.
Your uncle is your parent's brother.
Canada is the second largest country in the world..
painting a picture is for artists.
a neck is for Supporting a head.
washing your hands requires running water.
If you want to surf then you should have a surfboard.
An activity a musician can do is play the violin.
cows are eaten.
a person wants freedom of religion.
Pencils can write.
A toy is for entertainment.
cancer can kill.
a person wants safety.
Something you find at the movies is humans.
The effect of learning is good.
You are likely to find a mouse in a hole in the wall.
Somewhere garbage can be is in the trash.
a dog can sense the danger.
The clouds are water vapor.
a glass of milk is for drinking.
You can use a flute to make music.
An arbitrator can settle a dispute.
A pitcher is a player in baseball.
Persian is a type of cat.
You are likely to find a typewriter keyboard in an office..
The Sun shines.
a watch is a small portable clock.
You are likely to find an advertisement in a bus.
A nightgown is a long, loose garment worn to bed.
You can use a cello to play music with.
Michio kaku is a theoretical physicist.
an acoustic guitar is used for playing music.
A quarrel is a disagreement marked by anger and deep resentment.
If you want to wash your car then you should have a car.
Lubbock is a city in Texas.
A stop watch is used to time events.
a fajita is a Mexican dish.
a backyard is for having barbecues.
Sirius is a star.
If you want to program then you should use a computer.
A CD is a digital recording medium.
You are likely to find a TV in the living room.
A Honda Celica is a make and model of car.
Something you need to do before you ride a horse is saddle the horse.
Luca bonatesta is an handsome guy.
One of the things you do when you play cards is shuffle the deck.
A university is a special kind of school to learn enough to get a good job.
sushi is delicious Japanese food.
Gardening is a good way to make friends.
Oldsmobile is a type of car.
An atlas is a flat representation of the globe.
taking the bus requires paying a fare.
a cow is a living creature.
If you want to read the news then you should have a newspaper.
a coffee table is a small type of table.
You are likely to find a lemur in a hole.
A corporation is a large business.
Something that might happen as a consequence of talking is a dry mouth.
a tax is a payment of funds to the government.
Something you need to do before you take a bath is remove your clothes.
A jug is a container for liquids.
You are likely to find a garden hose in a garage.
Lead is a very dense material.
You are likely to find a monkey in the tropical forest.
A movie ticket is a pass to get into a movie.
Something you find in the Arctic is a seal.
a yo-yo is a children's toy.
If you want to pay by check then you should have money in the bank.
An extrovert is a friendly, outgoing person.
Objectivism is a theory proposed by Ayn Rand.
A puzzle is a picture broken into many pieces.
You are likely to find a court in a courthouse.
You can use an accordion to make music.
DNA is a double stranded molecule.
OpenMind is an interesting way to spend time.
Somewhere water can be is in a puddle.
Beer is a beverage.
Something that might happen when you go on strike is you walk a picket line.
Pinching things is a good way to remove pieces of things.
An oven is very hot.
If you want to buy fresh fruits and vegetables then you should go to the grocery store.
A fan can cool a person.
A grimoire is a magical workbook.
A person can eat sushi in bed.
Affective love is appreciation and compassion.
A whale is a marine mammal.
new York is a large city. 
playing is fun.
a life saver is a flotation device used on commercial ships.
Fortune cookies are fun.
Daoine sidhe is an Irish name for fairies.
You are likely to find a toilet in a house.
steel is a very strong building material.
a person wants enough food to eat.
Ozone is a molecule composed of three oxygen atoms.
polo is an expensive sport.
TI is an abbreviation for Texas Instruments.
A caterpillar can become a butterfly.
Art is a way of expressing human emotions.
Something you find at a show is seats.
metal is a hard substance.
A drawer is a container.
coffee is an acquired taste.
peaches are often canned.
A propeller beanie is a silly hat.
If you want to compete against someone then you should challenge them.
Grilling is a good way to prepare food.
A light year is the distance that light travels in one year.
cedar point is a very famous amusement park.
You are likely to find a sloth in a rain forest.
A chine cotton is a type of fabric.
You are likely to find a bed in a room.
sim city is a good game.
You would exercise because you want to be healthy.
Mount Shasta is a dormant volcano.
joining the army is for Serving the country.
person is a synonym for a human.
You are likely to find a hot dog in a hot dog bun.
Earth is another word for the third planet from Sol.
Some people wear masks on Halloween.
an exercise program is an organized collection of exercises.
Pelican is a bird.
ice hockey is a rough sport.
going to an opera requires opera tickets.
a dome is a large, round roof.
Something you might do while punching someone is clench your fist.
a cable is an old name for a telegram.
The effect of eating lunch is satisfying hunger.
Wool is a form of clothing material.
a theater seat is for Sitting.
ASEAN is an economic grouping of south-east Asian countries.
The effect of telling many people about something is lots of people know.
Salad is an important ingredient to a healthy diet.
If you want to earn a living then you should go to work.
skin is a covering of epithelial cells that protects the internal anatomy of a human.
You are likely to find a hot dog in a bun.
Tiger Woods is a golfer.
Hawk is a bird.
urination is a human's main means of waste disposal.
Something that might happen while killing someone is they die.
Sometimes surprising someone causes them to scream.
singing songs is a way to tell a story.
Something you find in a pantry is food.
Laughter is a very special homosapien trait.
Something you find at a toy store is a puzzle.
music is a beautiful thing.
If you want to play ball then you should get a ball.
A family portrait is a cherished memory for generations to come.
You would play games because you want to relax.
An electronic marketplace is an Internet-based enterprise that brings together buyers and sellers of goods and services in a particular context.
The first thing you do when you walk the dog is put a leash on the dog.
My mind is a blank slate.
Something that might happen as a consequence of surfing is drowning.
singing is a popular recreation.
You are likely to find a keyboard instrument in a band.
Fire gives out heat.
music is a cheesecake for the brain.
A person doesn't want boredom.
An ibex is a wild goat.
sewing is for fixing clothes.
writing a check without having enough money in your bank account is a crime.
You are likely to find a glue stick in a drawer.
grief is a normal reaction to an important loss.
One of the things you do when you move a car is press the accelerator.
A C Clamp is a bad place for human body parts.
An orange is a type of fruit.
A polliwog is an immature frog.
a batter can hit a baseball.
A BBQ is used to cook food.
meditation is used for relaxation.
Milk is a drink rich in calcium.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in Montana.
Super Mario Brothers is a game for Nintendo.
There are many different cultures in the world.
a pantry is a closet that holds food.
If you want to get onto the web then you should get an Internet connection.
Cheddar is a type of cheese named after a city in England.
Something you might do while getting a divorce is hire a lawyer.
a ball is a round object.
a doctor examination room is for examining a patient.
an archway is a doorway with a rounded top.
a window is for letting light in a building.
A gymnasium is a room equipped for physical exercise.
The effect of running is sweating.
One of the things you do when you create art is admire your own talent.
The effect of urinating is emptying the bladder.
Good health is a key to happiness which is a key to good health.
a train tracks are for trains.
Fresh fruit is a great breakfast food.
A closet for clothes is in a bedroom.
A toy car is a present for a child.
Men can father children.
Ornamental kale is an annual plant.
You would go to a Laundromat because you want to wash your clothes.
a robot is an artificial worker.
A hammer can break glass.
One of the things you do when you post a message is add the time and date.
You are likely to find a doll in a child's bedroom.
widget is a word that generically describes a class of manufactured objects.
buying a hamburger is for satisfying hunger.
Pouring milk into a glass is an activity before drinking.
You are likely to find a pit in a peach.
A bomb is an explosive device.
A clown can act silly.
A pub is a licensed drinking establishment that also serves food.
a hammer can strike a nail.
a person wants entertainment.
Paying bills is a responsible action.
horse racing is an expensive hobby.
beer can contain water.
Alberta is a province in Canada.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in the yard.
boy George is an artist.
a family is a group of related people.
An earring is a piece of jewelry that females put in their earlobes.
You can use a clavichord to play music.
Hunger is a signal that your body needs food.
You are likely to find a carpet in your living room.
A manta ray is a kind of fish.
money can be exchanged for goods and services.
A calculator is a small device for performing arithmetic.
Axes cut wood.
Hip hop is a kind of dance.
You would go to a restaurant because you want to eat out.
A lever is a simple machine.
If you want to view a video then you should have a VCR and a TV.
Montreal is in Canada.
You are likely to find a comforter in the bed.
hand luggage is used for carrying with you.
Somewhere a cat can be is in a kennel.
a safety pin is made of metal.
Something you find in the mail is packages.
People like to laugh.
If you want to view a video then you should turn on the VCR.
A paper is used to print something on.
Good music is a distillation of pure emotion.
a person wants a good night of sleep.
Wasted time.
You would meet a friend because you are lonely.
proposing to a woman requires a ring.
A banjo is a musical instrument.
gold is very valuable.
Something you find under the carpet is dirt.
horses walk on four legs.
reading a magazine is for entertainment.
a father loves his children.
gathering energy for tomorrow requires resting today.
A forest is a group of trees.
Something that might happen while fighting the enemy is death.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
Outdoor furniture is often made of plastic.
denim is used for making jeans.
a flower can attract insects.
Horses are fun to ride.
Some flowers are yellow.
Information wants to be free.
A shopper can spend money.
dogs like to catch Frisbees. 
Something you might do while listening to music is close your eyes.
meat is for eating.
a person doesn't want bosses.
The candle burns.
a bird has two wings.
You can use a sugar to sweeten food.
seeing an exciting story is for entertainment.
You can use an egg to eat.
Books contain information.
sister is a female sibling.
stethoscopes are cold.
a library is for borrowing books.
Sometimes paying by credit card causes debt.
a trunk is used for storage.
Something you find in a car is a stereo.
The last thing you do when you die is stop breathing.
Something you need to do before you calculate things quickly is get a calculator.
a person doesn't want the flu.
Skiing requires snow.
comforting a friend requires compassion.
playing hockey is for having fun.
Something you need to do before you make a phone call is find a phone.
the earth rotates around the sun.
You are likely to find jeans in the gap.
a person wants pleasure.
You are likely to find a beanie baby in toy store.
You can use an exam table to take an exam.
Something that might happen when you give a gift is feeling good.
playing ball is for having fun.
The Eiffel tower is tall. 
The Eiffel tower is in Paris. 
Paris is the capital of France.
A beaver is a mammal.
going to see a play is for something to do on a date.
Something that might happen when you make bread is the mixing of ingredients.
People wear glasses.
A musician performs on a stage.
Bowing down is an action that shows humility.
If you want to have friends over then you should call them up.
plants give off oxygen.
If you want to grow vegetables then you should plant a garden.
Champagne is a French sparkling wine.
If you want to study then you should read a book.
hair grows.
You are likely to find ink in a printer.
You are likely to find a snake in Texas.
New Zealand is a country.
Cows graze on grass.
A town is a very small city.
Something that might happen while living is dying.
a head is part of an animal.
Tic-tac-toe is a game for two players.
You are likely to find a clothing shelf in a closet.
Something you find at a party is beer.
a T-shirt is used for covering the torso.
agate is a precious stone.
Something that might happen as a consequence of eating breakfast in bed is crumbs in bed.
a car is a transportation vehicle with an internal combustion engine.
plants need water and light to grow.
A chair is a good place to sit.
a person wants good eyesight.
Wool is a fabric made from the hair of sheep.
The effect of living is dying.
a paycheck is a monetary transfer.
A mango is a fruit.
Brigham Young University is a tertiary education institution.
If you want to empty your bladder then you should go to a toilet.
John Cage is a minimalist composer.
Something you find at a swimming pool is swimmers.
The statement "You are likely to find a cabriolet in a car lot" is true because a cabriolet is a type of car.
A bus shelter is a place to wait for the bus.
a person doesn't want to be picked on.
A cube is a solid geometric figure with six square faces.
a helmet is a type of hat meant to protect the head.
A pool is a man made reservoir for swimming in.
If you want to celebrate then you should be with friends.
Dad is a very special person.
A man is changing a tire.
a protected hand is a healthy hand.
Book shelves are for holding books.
Something you might do while answering questions is think.
a love seat is a smaller sofa.
You would learn because you want to know.
A television is a device for seeing at a distance.
The effect of doing some exercises is getting fit.
a subway station is an underground train stop.
Something you find on a table is a dish.
A kid is a young person.
You are likely to find a shopping basket in the grocery store.
A salad bowl is a large bowl for serving salad in.
Something that might happen while tickling is laughter.
air is a good isolator.
You are likely to find a ferret in a cage.
Courage is a trait balanced by prudence.
a royal flush is the best poker hand.
A Great Dane is a large breed of dog.
penguins waddle.
A brother is a male sibling.
Boots were made for walking.
gold is a valuable metal.
violins can make music.
Turkey is a type of bird.
A pentagon is a closed shape with five sides.
Something you find in war is death.
Beryllium is a chemical element.
bridges are used to cross water.
Star Trek is a work of fiction.
Something you find behind the fridge is a wall.
A kid is a colloquial term for a young human.
hacky-sack is another name for foot bag. 
You are likely to find a street in a city.
A dog is a loyal friend.
a person doesn't want to go to work.
A pen is a device for producing permanent markings on paper.
If you want to listen to music then you should turn on the stereo.
A car is a popular word used to describe an automobile.
A Honda Accord is a make and model of car.
laughter is a sign of joy.
earth is a word.
A flower is a nice thing to give someone.
A limousine is a very long, fancy car.
Nostalgia is a human emotion.
A goldfish is a type of carp that makes a nice pet.
a council is a chosen group of people to govern the group.
An obelisk is a tall, four-sided tower topped with a pyramid.
A bug in computer software is an error made by a programmer.
Third Eye Blind is an alternative rock band.
A Digital Game Timer is an electronic clock.
A dragon is a big, scary, fire-breathing make-believe beast.
prison is a punishment for a crime.
A crown is a fancy hat worn by kings and queens.
A club is an exclusive group of people.
A bucket is an open container for holding liquids.
A stable is a home for horses.
An adventure is a journey into the unknown.
Easter is a Christian holiday.
One instance of a vessel is a nuclear submarine.
chicken is a white meat.
a credit card is a card used for purchases on credit.
time is a way to measure movement.
Horace Engdahl is a cultural snob.
Natural gas is a renewable resource.
A governor is a more local version of president.
A cubicle is an alternative to an office.
One of the things you do when you do housework is wash the windows.
Lighting is a crucial aspect of interior design.
Childhood is a time to cherish.
Something that might happen when you fight war is dying.
A nonogon is a closed shape with nine sides.
controlling anger is a very useful skill.
a square is a rectangle with four sides of equal length.
Whales swimming like fish is a comparison.
a veterinarian is a doctor for dogs.
Music is a great form of expression.
An infant is a child in the earliest period of life.
A violin is a stringed instrument.
A coffee table is a low table that sits in front of a sofa.
carrying a knife in the wilderness is a good idea.
hand luggage is a bad place to put a machine gun.
A carafe is a large container used for holding liquid.
A hexagon is a closed shape with six sides.
timekeeping is an important science.
A disk is a circular object that is thin and flat.
wildlife is a rare sight in cities.
a pair of pants is actually one object.
north Carolina is a state in the united states of America.
A defendant is a person being charged with an offense. 
A marathon is a very long, exhausting race.
Television is a form of communication.
Martin Staael is a famous person in Denmark.
Poker is a game of chance based on skill.
Mexico is a political division of the Earth.
Rogaine is a pharmaceutical treatment for male pattern baldness.
A blackboard is a temporary storage device.
A rock is a natural substance.
humor is a difficult concept.
A cu sith is a supernatural dog in Celtic lore.
Ebola is a lethal virus.
Writing is a way to communicate ideas.
Something that might happen when you have a haircut is shorter hair.
A wedding ring is a symbol of a lifelong commitment to your marital partner.
Microsoft Outlook is a much more efficient way of storing contact information than a Rolodex. 
Kissing is an accepted form of displaying affection.
a bridge is a man made product.
government is a human invention.
An amulet is a consecrated object that possesses the power to draw forces.
freedom is a universal right.
Ford is an American car company.
Part of a uniform is a shirt and pants.
anger is an important survival emotion.
A pitcher is a container with a handle and a spout.
sport is a recreational activity.
A dinner party is a good way to bring friends together.
Cinderella is a fictional character.
speaking is a form of communication.
Another name for flat is apartment.
A cluricaun is a type of solitary fairy in Celtic lore.
A caoineag is a banshee in Celtic lore.
a screw is a wonderful, simple invention.
One of the things you do when you listen to music is adjust the volume.
Hockey is a fast paced sport.
You can use a toothpaste to brush your teeth.
A bandage is a piece of material that protects a wound.
taste in decorating is a matter of individual preference.
Rhode island is a state in America.
A chalkboard is an image that suggests the field of education.
Nurturing is a natural human instinct.
Apple pie and ice cream is a dessert. 
Overcrowding is a problem in today’s cities.
a mailbox is a container for letters.
A cookie is a common desert.
Gastropod is another word for snail.
Apple juice is an easy way to eat your vitamins.
eating is a social activity.
Wood is a common building material.
A steno pad is another name for a notebook.
Horseback riding is an excellent form of therapy for several physical and mental injuries.
A medal is a symbol of accomplishment and award.
a constellation is a group of stars that make a picture.
Software is a labor-intensive enterprise.
communication is an act of conveying ideas.
An hourglass is an ancient time-keeping device.
Cheese is an ingredient in nachos.
Cappuccino is a coffee drink with frothed milk.
Hockey is a sport game played on ice.
skutzhund is a German word.
a parking area is an area dedicated to parked cars.
a parking area is a dead space in the urban fabric.
a handsaw is a useful tool for cutting wood.
A garden hose is an enclosed channel for water.
Clinton is a small town in Massachusetts.
A rubber duck is an excellent bath toy for children.
An inkwell is a container for ink.
a glass is a container to put the milk in.
Moo Goo Gai Pan is a dish in a Chinese restaurant.
A bushel is a measure of volume of farm produce.
hockey is a fast paced and hard hitting game.
country life is a good way to live.
One of the things you do when you determine the truth is make a decision.
Having dinner with the captain of the ship is a special honor.
lightning is an electrical flash that comes from a storm cloud.
A canon is a collected body of work.
eating together is a means of social bonding.
Swiss Army is a brand of pocket knife.
Alcohol is a sedative and a pain-killer.
OCD is a life-long psychological anxiety disorder.
a tack is a small pointy object to hold items in place.
A vacation is a break from normal life.
technology is a term for scientific discoveries.
A wagon is a four-wheeled vehicle that is pulled.
a secretary is an assistant to a white-collar worker.
Chris Everett is a famous tennis player.
a snow-capped mountain is a mountain covered with snow.
Vladivostok is a city located in Russia.
a cake is a tasty treat.
a microphone is a device that records audio.
one freshmen is a freshman.
religion is a powerful force.
a tortilla is a structural element in a taco.
a caddy is a golfer's personal assistant.
Turning to face the sun is a strategy.
A bar is a place to go and have a beer.
index is a way to file names and content in alphabetical order.
A beanbag chair is a kind of chair without legs.
solar power is a clean, renewable energy source.
Poor communication is a stressful condition at work.
A rubber chicken is a strange invention of the human being.
Socratic irony is a term that refers to the practice teaching wisdom by professing ignorance and asking to be taught by others.
A camera is a tool for taking pictures.
A beach is a recreational area.
Chess is a game of skill that requires strategic thinking.
Fall is a great time of year.
A dishwasher is a machine that cleans dishes.
rubber stamp is a metaphor for approval of things without knowing their content.
A nightclub is a place to go to hear live music.
Literary character is a cumulative construction.
One of the things you do when you go to a play is applaud the actors.
wedge is a useful shape for special tools.
A gremlin is an imaginary creature.
TV is a way to relax.
Lexus is a car brand name.
A paradox is a fact that contradicts itself.
a food store is a place to buy groceries.
Tasting a sweet flavor is a good feeling.
Queen Elizabeth is a powerful ruler.
A Disney hopper pass is a combo pass.
Money is a form of trade.
a nest is a shelter for birds.
a swimming pool is a large space filled with water.
Dying is a simple fact of life.
Bicycling is a good form of exercise.
Laughter is a product of something that is funny.
cold vanilla ice cream is a tasty contrast to hot apple pie.
Everything is a political struggle.
Shark is a tasty meat.
A belief is a subjective sense of knowledge.
Storming a castle is a good way to get killed.
Reality is a mental concept.
reading is a way of escaping from mundane life without leaving your armchair.
An arch is a geometric figure.
Margaritifer Sinus is a darkish region on Mars.
a coin is a metal disc which is worth money.
Mare Hadriaticum is a darkish region on Mars.
film is a way of recording moving images.
Mare Erythraeum is a dark region on Mars.
a robot is a tool to help human beings.
An outbound communication is an attempt by your computer to open a connection with a remote computer.
An opinion is a subjective statement.
a pipe is a device for delivering a measure of nicotine to the bloodstream.
Milk going sour is a fermentation action.
A millennium is a thousand years.
Smoking cigarettes is a volitional recreation.
football is a physical activity.
An agate is a special type of marble.
Coleman is a brand of camping lantern.
Falun Gong is a spiritual cultivation practice.
ice hockey is a contact sport.
A lake is a large pool of fresh water.
A command is an instruction to perform an action.
7-Up is a popular soda.
A locker room is a room which contains lockable storage lockers.
A steam train.
A catwalk is a narrow walkway.
euonymus is a plant.
A statistic is a number that summarizes many observations.
If you want to take finals then you should study hard.
Skipping rope is a vigorous activity.
fruit is a good source of vitamins.
secret agent is a good job.
A balanced scorecard is a software application for measuring the success of enterprise departments.
Sometimes taking a bath causes wrinkled skin.
One person's noise is another person's music.
If you want to start a fire then you should find matches.
Saskatchewan is a province in Canada.
Something you might do while taking final exams is write an essay.
monogamy is an unnatural social aspect.
a banjo is used for making music.
XML is a document-tagging language.
Vegetables grow in gardens.
a sunset is a calming experience.
Pears grow on trees.
Cooperation is an important attitude in practicing with partners.
communicating requires thinking.
a montage is a collection of objects on a single page.
The last thing you do when you laugh at a joke is sing.
A relationship is a personal situation.
You are likely to find a cello in an orchestra.
A regatta is a sailboat race.
You are likely to find a bus driver in a bus.
Monday is a weekday.
Something that might happen while buying presents for others is they will be happy.
a class is a group of people. 
People are usually educated in classes.
You are likely to find a potato in earth.
Painting is a flying pigment.
snow is a crystalline form of solid water.
Somewhere a plant can be is in a pot.
Discipline is a tool for creating order and unity in a group of people.
Something you find at an airport is a taxiway.
a food store is a place to buy food.
If you want to dive then you should go to the swimming pool.
a rag is a tool for cleaning things.
teachers work in a school.
Ceili dancing is a form of Irish folk dance with steps that are low to the ground.
Tanks are for killing people.
a safety pin is an ingenious tool that one should always have on hand.
A scale is used to measure weight.
a living room with an open hearth is a comforting place for people to relax.
You are likely to find a grape in a tree.
A sincere accomplishment is a personal paradise.
If you want to use a computer then you should have electricity.
Playing basketball is a form of exercise.
If you want to take the bus then you should find a bus stop.
a warlock is a male witch.
If you want to clean your clothes then you should take them off.
a bicycle is an efficient form of human transportation.
Paris is the capital city of France.
Energizer is a registered trademark.
You are likely to find a container in a pantry.
Rowing is a great source of exercise.
Something you need to do before you win a baseball game is practice.
Superhighway is a buzzword for a large data network.
Time is relative.
Aurorae Sinus is a region on Mars.
Sand is gritty.
Wayne Stonham is a project officer in Canberra.
A foot has five toes.
A union is a collection of workers formed to increase their bargaining power with their employer.
a hardware store is for buying hardware.
Britain is a monarchic state.
The effect of waiting on tables is earning money.
A nursing home is an apartment complex for old people.
A car usually has a trunk.
If you want to fly a kite then you should go outside.
Something you find in a quandary is problems.
Drinking great wine is an expensive pleasure.
playing Frisbee requires a Frisbee. 
fruit is a source of food for humans and other animals.
basketball is aerobic exercise.
a president is an important person in politics.
Something you find in your mouth is a denture.
Something you find at the end of a line is a hook.
A rook is part of a chess set.
a cottage is a small home.
You would go to get a haircut because you want your hair to be shorter.
You are likely to find a sloth in Brazil.
You are likely to find a bus stop in a city.
Memnonia is a light region on Mars.
Something that might happen as a consequence of dreaming is a nightmare.
a store is for buying things.
Bagpipes are a musical instrument.
A data file is a document that stores information in records.
You are likely to find a shark in the Indian ocean.
You are likely to find a tearoom in England.
Sometimes flirting causes a relationship.
Tuesday is a weekday.
Something you find on the surface of the earth is ocean.
Something you might do while riding a bike is pedaling.
You are likely to find an expressway in a city.
Star Wars is a recipe for global instability.
A man is writing.
One of the things you do when you play football is throw the ball.
an ink stamp.
A creature is a living entity.
A person is a mammal.
Something you find at a bowling alley is pins.
If you want to go to get a haircut then you should wash your hair.
High expressed emotion is a risk factor on the course of schizophrenia in Iran.
Somewhere a desk can be is inside an office building.
You can use a muscle to move something.
One of the things you do when you have a haircut is go to the barbers.
Mount Hood is a mountain in Oregon.
buildings are man made.
the sun is used for light.
carpeting is for decoration.
Vitamin C is an antioxidant.
If you want to comfort a friend then you should listen to their problems.
Somewhere a solar panel can be is on a roof.
If you want to enjoy the company of your friends then you should invite them over.
Hate is a strong emotion.
a light source is used for seeing things.
Somewhere a pilot can be is inside an airplane.
Something you might do while studying is listen to music.
God is a fairy tale for adults.
standing in a queue is for waiting to do something.
An activity a cat can do is sleep.
a person wants vacation.
One of the things you do when you have a conversation is exchange information.
You are likely to find a potato in potato soup.
You are likely to find a bat in cave.
a teacher is a person who transfers knowledge to children.
Something you find at a home is children.
reading a book can be fun.
You can use a farmhouse to live in.
cats can jump.
pepper and salt is used for seasoning food.
If you want to wait in line then you should find the end of the line.
Something that might happen when you wait tables is a tip.
is a kind of.
A tank is a war weapon invented during WWI.
Somewhere the moon can be is in the sky.
a crow is a bird.
The first thing you do when you eat a hamburger is open your mouth.
a percussion instrument is used for making music.
A carpenter can plane a surface to make it smoother.
A picture is worth a thousand words.
mice are mammals.
A creature is a living thing.
Something you might do while scoring a homer is run the bases.
a car park is for parking cars.
A bungalow is a kind of house.
You would exercise because exercise keeps you strong.
If you want to sit on a chair then you should find a chair.
a turnpike is used for driving.
You would meet girls because you want love.
Something you find at a restaurant is a waitress.
buying something requires spending your money.
You can use a plate to put food in.
satisfying appetites with minimum effort requires an apple.
You are likely to find a food store in town.
Something you find at the movies is a projector.
You are likely to find the Indian Ocean in India.
If you want to go to a Laundromat then you should get a car.
people sing in a musical.
The effect of getting a contract is agreement.
a date would make you want to go to a film.
You are likely to find a token turnstile in a subway.
having a physical exam requires seeing a doctor.
Fame would make you want to act in a play.
a game is for entertainment.
visiting a museum requires admission. 
If you want to find a lost item then you should look under things.
Something you find at a university is a book.
computers would make you want to surf the net.
blubber would make you want to get exercise.
Something that might happen when you test the car is it breaks.
Something you might do while falling is break your fall.
butter is a type of food.
hot water can burn you.
One of the things you do when you play ball is throw the ball.
You can use a party to celebrate a birthday.
a movie house is for watching movies.
You can use a check to pay a bill.
The last thing you do when you take an exam is turn it in.
Sometimes running in a marathon causes dehydration.
Wired is a magazine aimed at computer users.
If you want to ride a bike then you should sit on a bike.
Something you find on the moon is dust.
Houses often have yards.
If you want to write a story then you should have an imagination.
You are likely to find a small dog in your own home.
planes can land at airports.
You are likely to find a crab in the Chesapeake bay.
You are likely to find a ferret in a trouser.
cats can have fleas.
The effect of watching a TV show is entertainment.
The last thing you do when you study for a subject is close the book.
Scrabble is a board game.
going on a vacation is for Seeing the world.
If you want to fish then you should bait your hook.
a face is for meeting people.
an oven is for cooking.
Fingernails grow.
Something you find at the beach is lifeguards.
going into a trance requires relaxation.
You are likely to find bread in a bakery.
If you want to pass your university exams then you should study hard.
playing cards is for having fun.
Sometimes going to a concert causes ringing in the ears.
A molecule is a group of atoms that are connected.
Something that might happen as a consequence of conquering your opponent is winning.
If you want to calculate things quickly then you should use the calculator.
If you want to read a newspaper then you should have a newspaper.
a surgeon is a doctor.
misers can count money.
Chinese food is spicy.
Something you find at a desk is a lamp.
You are likely to find a shop in town.
Something you find at the opera is a baritone.
Something you find in church is a carpet.
storms are violent weather.
Something you find in a pocket is your hand.
A bloodhound is a type of dog.
a baseball ticket is used for attending a baseball game.
If you want to go to the store then you should bring money.
animals have fur.
You are likely to find a net in a fishing boat.
music is a gift from the angels.
Something you might do while going to a film is eat popcorn.
If you want to jump rope then you should find a rope.
If you want to see artifacts then you should visit a museum.
a towel dries hair.
You are likely to find a trumpet in a band.
Something you need to do before you sign a contract is read the contract.
A Glock is a type of gun.
Playing baseball would make you want to score a home run.
You are likely to find a potato in a potato sack.
Somewhere a boat can be is in a harbor.
Something you find in a box is a chocolate.
You can use a hair shaping gel to shape your hair.
hearing music is for relaxing.
You are likely to find an anemone in fields.
A fire can heat the food.
You are likely to find a reception area in hotels.
Cows like to eat grass.
You are likely to find a number in the phone book.
Something you might do while hearing music is sing.
Something that might happen while washing your clothes is your clothes get clean.
Something you find on a table is a computer.
This man is singing into a microphone.
a drill is used for drilling holes in things.
The effect of driving your car is getting somewhere.
A molecule is made of atoms.
Sometimes holiday shopping causes debt.
The moon revolves around the earth.
You are likely to find a cat in the garden.
Rain comes from clouds.
a person doesn't want a computer virus.
Gold is a soft metal.
oranges grow on trees.
a detective can case the joint.
Something you find in your mouth is a germ.
You would have a bath because you want to be clean.
Something you might do while playing the piano is sit.
nobody wants to die.
People can captain a ship.
a bathroom is for taking a shower.
Military submarines are expensive machines.
A bird can spread its wings.
nights are generally dark.
A banana is yellow.
Something you need to do before you tape a television show is turn on the VCR.
Something you find at a show is popcorn.
Something you find under the carpet is dust.
An orange is orange.
You are likely to find a tear off calendar in an office.
steak comes from cows.
Something you find at a rest area is picnic tables.
buying presents is for a birthday.
having a physical exam requires a doctor.
a barn is used for keeping animals.
people can join a club.
A banker can lend money.
Gull is a bird.
Something that might happen as a consequence of learning is having an understanding.
If you want to buy a hamburger then you should go to a restaurant.
You would communicate because you need information.
A person wants to be healthy.
You are likely to find a bag in the drawer.
rice is a grain.
Seeds grow into plants.
You are likely to find a paper punch in a desk drawer.
Something you need to do before you take a phone call is answer the phone.
You are likely to find an entryway in an office building.
going to work is for earning money.
playing poker is for Entertainment.
Ford is a brand of car.
Wind blows.
buying fresh fruits and vegetables is for making salads.
blue and yellow make green.
You can use a sea to swim in.
a woodwind is for playing music.
Something that might happen while cogitating is you get an idea.
an oboe is used for playing in an orchestra.
You are likely to find gold in fort Knox. 
loving someone would make you want to give a gift.
Something that might happen while taking an examination is your pencil breaks.
You are likely to find a master bedroom in a house.
Queen Elizabeth is a dignified person.
Sometimes having a party causes noise.
You are likely to find a bath shower in a bathroom.
If you want to clean clothing then you should throw it in the washer.
impatience would make you want to leave the line.
You would listen to the radio because you want to hear the traffic report.
a pistol is a type of gun.
You are likely to find a buffet in a restaurant.
Something that might happen while eating lunch is you burp.
Something you find in a car is a glove compartment.
a tape dispenser is used for holding tape.
a person wants a purpose in life.
You would get warm because you want to be comfortable.
typewriters have ribbons.
Something that might happen when you buy a house is you get a mortgage.
a French horn is a musical instrument.
Sometimes cleaning clothing causes wrinkles.
roller coasters are fun.
A bear is a mammal.
Something you find in a city is stores.
Sometimes tying your shoelace causes a delay.
there is no gravity in space.
Sometimes waiting tables causes tired feet.
Food is good.
Something that might happen when you go to the zoo is you see lions.
submarines can go underwater.
If you want to cogitate then you should think for a while.
a person wants their space.
Something that might happen as a consequence of diving is you get hurt.
You are likely to find a fortune in a cookie.
Something that might happen when you clean your room is putting things away.
Fruit contains vitamins.
You would bake a cake because you want to celebrate a birthday.
Ontario is part of Canada.
Music is a form of entertainment.
You would meet interesting people because you want to have fun.
corn is a grain.
a chapel is for worshipping. 
Wire can be made of copper.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to the zoo is you see monkeys.
Wood is brown.
men and women get married. 
You would hike because you want to go out.
fish breathe underwater.
You are likely to find a knife in a pocket.
You are likely to find a telephone booth in the city.
Sometimes being in charge of a project causes grief. 
You would play games because you want to win.
Doors are used to enter rooms.
weeding the garden requires pain.
a weightlifter can lift weights.
a radio is for listening to.
You would go to school because you want to have fun.
Paper comes from trees.
If you want to go to another place in the same city cheaply then you should ride the bus.
Something that might happen while jumping at the chance is panic.
a window is for looking outside.
Baseball is a team sport.
You can use cord to tie.
You can use a chess queen to play a game of chess.
Something you might do while sleeping at night is toss and turn.
fixing a computer requires knowledge about computers.
babies are happy.
The planets are all spheres.
The effect of reading a magazine is entertainment.
Something that might happen when you add up a column of numbers is the sum.
athletes can jump high.
a nightmare is a scary dream.
Something you find at fairgrounds is cotton candy.
You are likely to find a bee in a bees' nest.
You would wait on tables because you are a waiter.
The first thing you do when you take a walk is put on shoes.
You are likely to find a highlighter in a desk.
An attempt to change the order of books on the shelf is a try to organize.
A baritone is usually a male singer.
A moose is a large type of deer from northern forests.
taking in a film requires buying a ticket.
A hurricane is a strong storm with high winds and rain.
Being on a jury would make you want to bring in a verdict.
If you want to go fishing then you should get your fishing pole.
Bees make honey.
A big dog is a good watchdog.
You are likely to find a cow in a hamburger.
burlap is a course woven fabric used for making storage bags.
Something you find at a bus stop is bench.
people usually sleep at nights.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to the pub is getting drunk.
A conference is a meeting of many people on a particular topic.
Mammals are warm blooded.
wine is for getting drunk.
Something you find in a field is corn.
A telephone book is an alphabetical listing of names and phone numbers.
an I-beam is used for support.
freedom is a cruise ship on an open sea.
Something you find on a table is books.
a trophy is a symbol of victory in sports.
a letter scale is for weighing letters.
Typing is a term for using a keyboard.
A calendar is for keeping track of time.
A city is a political subdivision of a county in U.S. states.
a pen knife is a very useful tool.
A sport is a competitive game that people play.
If you want to drive to work then you should have a car.
A celebrity is a famous person.
A beanie is a silly looking cap.
Basil is a spice used in cooking.
If you want to serve justice then you should not commit a crime.
Multiple sclerosis is a serious progressive disease of the nervous system.
one man's music is another man's noise.
a peach tree is a tree that bears peaches.
a person doesn't want to lose their parents.
an aquarium is a controlled environment for aquatic specimens.
polo is a men's cologne.
A chess knight is a piece in a game.
Something you find in the cellar is a furnace.
cooking food is a fun activity.
Saying is an activity.
Pittsburgh is a city in Pennsylvania.
The last thing you do when you watch the evening news is turn off the TV.
A thumb tack is a small tack used for posting paper on a bulletin board.
Laughter is a wonderful release.
CD and cassette is a sound storage medium.
an entrance is used for entering a building.
A mezzanine is a partial second floor with a view of the first floor.
Sometimes waiting your turn causes you to be late.
sport is a strenuous form of exercise.
Listening is an activity that often involves songs.
A ticket is a token that shows that you have paid for something.
testing the car requires knowledge.
Bill Gates is a very rich, wealthy man.
a pawn is a chess piece.
A scale is a device for measuring an object's weight.
Sometimes having fun causes laughter.
A cloth is a woven plant material.
eggs are food.
MIT is an example of an institution.
Something that might happen while committing to memory is you repeat the information to yourself.
gas is a form of chemical energy.
If you want to record something then you should tape it.
Falsification of accounts is an indictable offense. 
Something that might happen as a consequence of seeing exhibits is understanding.
killing someone is a crime.
Sometimes seeing a band causes ringing ears.
a royal flush is an excellent hand in poker.
Something that might happen while stopping your bicycle is you put a foot on the ground.
Something you find at the dentist is a drill.
The effect of listening is hearing something.
Packaging is a way to hold products.
Something you find in the office is workers.
One of the things you do when you cross the street is avoid traffic.
Something you find in the garage is a toolbox.
A wardrobe is a furniture item used to store clothes.
a mind is for thinking.
reading to your children is for teaching them.
Death can bring sorrow.
A pitcher is a container for holding a liquid such as water.
Something that might happen as a consequence of leaving the line is you have to start over.
a royal flush is a good poker hand.
Christmas would make you want to buy presents.
Something you find in a house is a clock.
bad food is a foundation for bad health.
Somewhere a bird can be is in a nest.
Raw fish is a nutritious food.
spilled pudding would make you want to wash your clothes.
Saving money is a good idea.
Something you find at an opera is costumes.
hockey is a fast sport.
Something that might happen when you play cards is you deal.
A double bass is a large violin.
rubber is a malleable substance.
television is a way to see the world from your armchair.
cash would make you want to return to work.
Animals can feel pain.
champagne is a light sparkling wine.
large size is an advantage in a predator.
Something that might happen while visiting a museum is you whisper.
Racquetball is a game invented by the YMCA to play indoors.
Corn chowder is a tasty treat.
A lorry is another name for a truck.
Something that might happen while reaching an impasse is frustration.
Star Trek is a television show about life in the future.
a male can father a child.
fruit is a good snack.
You are likely to find jeans in a store.
Getting bad news late is a warning sign.
Something that might happen while competing is you have fun.
Dictionary is a collection of words and their meanings.
the darkness would make you want to light a match.
Fighting fire for a living is a dangerous job.
Something you might do while playing sport is drink water.
lead is a heavy element.
You would commit perjury because you did not want to tell the truth.
a tortilla is a structural element in a tostada.
Something you might do while reaching an impasse is take one thing at a time.
Reflection is a mental exercise.
If you want to take the bus then you should have money.
A membrane is a thin barrier between two things.
there can be baths inside houses.
reading books is a joy.
Something you find at a bowling alley is lanes.
Sand passing through the hour glass is a metaphor of time passing.
You are likely to find a monkey in Africa.
Something you need to do before you score a homer is be playing baseball.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in Wyoming.
A dog house is a dog's home.
Something you need to do before you send a criminal to prison is find her guilty.
A wristwatch is a time piece with a band worn around the wrist.
Doves are birds.
groundhog day is an old superstition in discovering the remaining length of winter.
Something you find in a meadow is butterflies.
A Chateaubriand is an expensive and pretentious type of steak.
Sometimes watering a plant causes the plant to grow.
a passport is a gateway to the world.
Ice cream is sweet.
fort worth is a city in Texas. 
You are likely to find a hardware shop in a city.
A lecture is a passive learning technique.
One of the things you do when you kiss someone is pucker up.
a luggage carrier is a cart to carry suitcases.
Bhutan is a country in Asia. 
Sometimes having a bath causes you to get wet.
A pair of pants is actually only one pair of pants.
A bin can be made of plastic.
Assembly language is a way to speak directly to a computer.
The effect of seeing old things is nostalgia.
smoke is a word for cigarette.
Sometimes acting in a play causes applause.
a jockey is a crabby little person.
dancing is for Exercise.
An opera is a more up market type of entertainment than a football match.
Morse Code is a communications system.
Something that might happen as a consequence of tickling is laughing.
Water is a necessity for life.
The effect of taking finals is stress.
Newfoundland is a province in Canada.
You are likely to find a choir stall in church.
A stock control system is an important aid to the efficiency of a firm.
You can use a subway pass to ride the subway.
Gibberish is a language that means nothing.
You are likely to find a human in an apartment.
Geology is a science.
You are likely to find snow in the winter.
You are likely to find a mouse in the cellar.
granite is a dense rock.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing football is a torn ligament.
Admiral Chris Barrie is a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Management.
Sometimes diminishing your own hunger causes weight gains.
A rabbi is a kind of church leader.
making a phone call requires a telephone.
A family reunion is an event that brings together many people from the same family into one location.
You are likely to find a crab in Maine.
Christmas Island is a regular destination for large numbers of asylum seekers.
a maid can be cleaning a house.
PC is an acronym for personal computer.
You are likely to find a hair care article in a drug store.
Kissing is a physical act of intimacy between humans.
You are likely to find pepper and salt in a grocery store.
An hourglass is an old way of keeping track of time.
Something you find at the gym is a shower.
Hellas is a bright region on Mars.
A salesman wants to make sales.
a phone is a form of communication.
liking classical music would make you want to attend a classical concert.
pop is a carbonated beverage.
A church is a building used for Christian worship.
Unix is a PC operating system.
Something that might happen when you sate your hunger is eat food.
fruit is a better snack than candy.
Something that might happen as a consequence of seeing a story is being entertained.
American Express is a credit card.
Something you need to do before you ride a horse is get on the horse.
roller coasters can be scary.
Most bicycles have two wheels.
mayors can govern towns.
A ship floats on water.
France is a country in Europe.
If you want to howl with laughter then you should watch a very funny movie.
Something you might do while playing chess is check.
Something you find at a waterfall is a river.
Hands are body parts.
a basketball court is used for playing basketball games.
Something that might happen as a consequence of giving assistance is a good feeling.
If you want to teach other people then you should be patient with them.
boots protect feet.
You are likely to find an umbrella in a closet.
a person doesn't want insomnia.
a lion can roar.
A person can belong to a club.
a river is used for swimming.
people use wallets to hold their money.
People sit on a seat.
a fluoride toothpaste is for brushing teeth.
Somewhere junk can be is in the garage.
You can use a neighborhood map to find your way around.
Something that might happen as a consequence of spending money is less money.
People go to school to learn things.
The effect of loving someone else is happiness.
an apple has a stem.
Something you find in the water is life.
A person doesn't want agony.
You are likely to find a block of flats in a city.
A dining table is an indoor object.
Something you find on the windowsill is dust.
If you want to read a book then you should go to a library.
You are likely to find a lizard in a hot country.
You are likely to find an eating place in a city.
Something you might do while getting a good grade is celebrate.
You would buy a shirt because you want to wear it.
a lawyer can settle a lawsuit.
a college is for learning.
a person wants the best things in life.
Laughter is the best medicine.
You are likely to find a map in a glove box.
Contact lenses are used to correct vision.
A sofa is a piece of furniture.
a person doesn't want to get AIDS.
Something you find in the kitchen is a frying pan.
Something that might happen as a consequence of watering a plant is growing.
Sometimes giving a gift causes you to feel good.
One of the things you do when you play poker is bet.
You are likely to find a rock on the beach.
Friction causes heat.
You are likely to find a garment bag in a closet.
Something you might do while reaching an advantage is cheating.
a cemetery is used for burying dead people.
Something you find on the subway is advertisements.
Something you find at a sporting event is spectators.
cats have two eyes.
a piece of paper can be used to write upon.
a kitchen is a room in a house.
Mistakes are often made.
You can use a briefcase to carry documents.
One of the things you do when you love someone is kiss them.
hunger would make you want to have lunch.
The last thing you do when you drive a car is turn off the engine.
You are likely to find a rocking chair in the living room.
You are likely to find a string bass in an orchestra.
If you want to wait your turn then you should be patient.
Something that might happen while making bread is the dough rises.
a movie theater seat is for sitting in.
If you want to enjoy a film then you should pay attention.
a steakhouse is for eating steak in.
An activity a pilot can do is fly an aircraft.
You are likely to find a muscle in the arm.
You are likely to find a credit card in a purse.
If you want to buy a shirt then you should go to the clothing store.
If you want to buy a house then you should save some money.
a hose is for watering the lawn.
The sky is dark at night.
Something that might happen when you dance the samba is have fun.
Something you find at a fast-food restaurant is straws.
Something you find in a drawer is junk.
One of the things you do when you wash clothes is sort clothes.
Something you find at a synagogue is a Jew. 
Something you might do while obstructing justice is get arrested.
If you want to go into a coma then you should hit your head.
You are likely to find a launch platform in NASA.
One of the things you do when you calculate things quickly is use a calculator.
A politician can field questions.
If you want to write a letter then you should have a pen and paper.
You are likely to find a fountain pen in a desk.
You would watch TV because you want to be entertained.
a briefcase is used for carrying papers.
You are likely to find a shark in the Gulf of Mexico.
If you want to chop firewood then you should have an ax.
a person doesn't want a heart attack.
a person doesn't want to die young.
London is a city.
seeing a movie is for being entertained.
Singers make music.
Something you find in the water is bacteria.
Something that might happen when you go to a baseball game is buying a hot dog.
Something you need to do before you walk the dog is get the leash.
Something you find in the mail box is junk mail.
You are likely to find a cat in someone's home.
Something you find inside the body is bones.
You are likely to find a knife in the kitchen drawer.
You are likely to find a kitten in trouble.
Something you find in a backpack is pens.
Toyota is a company that makes cars.
The effect of playing poker is losing money.
watching a film is for entertainment.
Something you might do while listening is pay attention.
Something you find in space is satellites.
You are likely to find a trunk in an attic.
You are likely to find a second violin in an orchestra.
a party is for meeting people.
You are likely to find a cloth linen in a linen closet.
Something you find on television is cartoons.
getting the latest hairstyle for a night out on the town requires money.
Something you might do while going to the pub is drink beer.
An apple can be eaten.
testing the car requires driving.
Something you find at a demonstration is police.
running twenty six miles requires stamina.
Something you find at the gym is sweat.
a gardener can water the flowers.
If you want to communicate then you should talk with people.
The effect of resting is being no longer tired.
The last thing you do when you perform is bow.
playing sport is for exercise.
You are likely to find a theater in the city.
You are likely to find an attic in your house.
A cat wants to sleep.
Guitars Need to Be Tuned.
Some sharks eat people.
You would go for a run because you want to exercise.
A sack may be made of plastic.
A rainbow is a multicolored light arc.
Sometimes starting a fire causes burns.
If you want to send a criminal to prison then you should arrest them.
Something that might happen as a consequence of flying a kite is have fun.
a person wants adventure.
Something you find in the newspaper is classified advertisements.
pens write.
An activity a painter can do is paint.
You are likely to find a credit card wallet in your pocket.
training clown dogs would make you want to make people laugh.
Something you find in the cellar is potatoes.
An activity an artist can do is paint a picture.
If you want to calculate things quickly then you should use a computer.
Something you might do while going to work is listen to a radio.
playing is for Relaxing.
Something you find at a party is dancing.
cats are cute.
a tile is for flooring.
a knight is for Jousting.
Something that might happen while lighting a fire is you use kindling.
Something that might happen while waiting on line is boredom.
Pluto is a planet.
A baker can roll dough.
Something that might happen while cooking a meal is you use some basil.
a rabbit is an animal.
A bird can sing a song.
You are likely to find a castle in Europe.
going on the Internet requires a modem.
a Pool is usually filled with water.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taping a television show is you watch it later.
You are likely to find loose change in a pocket.
cleaning clothing is for removing stains.
a person doesn't want violence.
getting a contract is for doing some business.
Something you find at a friend's wedding is rings.
Sometimes fighting inflation causes problems.
People cannot walk on water.
planning a vacation requires imagination.
Parakeet is a bird.
You would test the car because you want to consider buying it.
Evil is bad.
Sometimes hurting someone else causes sadness.
a house has a bathroom.
Something you find at school is a cafeteria.
Sometimes pretending causes insanity.
You are likely to find a potato in a bag of potatoes. 
Something that might happen while using a television is you fall asleep.
Something that might happen as a consequence of getting in shape is more dates.
Something you find on the street is a crosswalk.
pride would make you want to compete against someone.
You are likely to find a driveway in a neighborhood.
Something you might do while having a rest is dream.
Something you find in a cabinet is paper.
Something you might do while watching a television show is have fun.
Something you might do while taking the bus is reading the newspaper.
The effect of examining a thing is knowing it.
Something you find on a fish is scales.
You can use a hardware shop to buy nails.
You would take the bus because you don't have a car.
You can use a merchant to buy.
Boxes are often made of cardboard.
resting is for regaining your energy.
Dogs have wet noses.
You would take finals because you want a good grade.
One of the things you do when you use a calculator is press buttons.
A captain can captain a ship.
You are likely to find a box in the closet.
If you want to see a movie then you should go to the movie theater.
Humor is subjective.
A challenge would make you want to test your strength.
Something that might happen as a consequence of seeing old things is remembering your past.
oranges can be squeezed.
a side chair is used for sitting.
Something you find at a sporting event is fans.
Something you find at a synagogue is rabbi.
You can use a vegetable garden to grow peas.
If you want to wait tables then you should get a job.
Corn comes in many colors.
You would sell your new book because you need the money.
Sometimes snoring causes sleeplessness. 
a school cafeteria is used for eating lunch.
Something you find in your mouth is fillings.
Many people take shower in the morning.
You can use a bottle of vodka to drink.
One of the things you do when you meet people is talk to them.
You are likely to find a cat in your way.
taking in a film is for entertaining yourself.
One of the things you do when you change your appearance is put on makeup.
You are likely to find a rosebush in the back yard.
a person doesn't want to be fat.
If you want to hear singing then you should turn on the radio.
If you want to catch mumps then you should kiss someone with mumps.
a doctor practices medicine.
A comb is used to comb hair.
If you want to answer questions then you should think.
bad smells would make you want to wash clothes.
You are likely to find a gazelle in a field.
cotton is a fiber from a plant.
Something you find at a train station is a train track.
Something you might do while getting in shape is diet.
You would eat in a restaurant because you are hungry.
You are likely to find a fungus in the shower stall.
Something you find under the table is a rug.
Laughter is infectious. 
The last thing you do when you talk to someone is say goodbye.
A vehicle is a mechanism for moving people from one place to another place.
You can use an orchestra seat to sit in.
A person can laugh at himself.
If you want to sit down then you should find a chair.
Another word for a vacuum is a Hoover. 
You are likely to find text in a book.
If you want to awake then you should sleep.
Cent is another word for penny.
a special exhibit would make you want to visit an art gallery.
Something you need to do before you soak in a hot spring is take off your clothes.
Saint Patrick's Cathedral is a church.
Something you find in space is comets.
Sometimes calculating things quickly causes you to make errors.
Something that might happen as a consequence of listening is learning.
Georgia Tech is another name for The Georgia Institute of Technology.
A red light would make you want to stop your car.
You would punish someone because you want to change their behavior. 
a paper punch is used for making holes in paper.
Brown University is a member of the Ivy League.
A container holds other objects.
Something that might happen while taking an exam is you forget things.
talking with someone far away requires a telephone.
You are likely to find a grain of sand on the beach.
Something you find at the repair shop is mechanics.
Something you find on the surface of the earth is plants.
You are likely to find a hardware store in a city.
Switzerland is a neutral country.
a harp is for playing music.
Coupons can save money.
a bridge railing is for keeping people from falling off.
a club is for hitting something.
Sailors can tie knots.
An activity satellites can do is orbit planets.
a linen closet is for storing bath towels.
You are likely to find an electric razor in the bathroom.
A DVD is a digital recording medium.
steel can be melted.
butter is yellow.
a person doesn't want to be forgotten about.
Vision is a physiological process for sensing light and conveying it to the central nervous system for analysis.
You are likely to find a pawn in a chess set.
A mug is a cup.
Groucho Marx was a funny man.
a main artery is an important blood vessel.
a stool is for Resting.
War is hell.
Some people enjoy watching television.
a person doesn't want misfortune.
a telephone booth is for making a telephone call.
Something that might happen while baking a cake is the oven will be pre-heated.
people use water to bathe in.
A carport is a parking structure. 
You are likely to find a human in clothing.
A hut is a small, simple shelter.
Glass is a kind of liquid.
TV is a short name for television.
Hawaii is a state.
A team can lose a game.
A glass can be partially full.
still water is very reflective.
Something you find at the gym is barbells.
steel is very strong.
The effect of learning is intelligence.
If you want to examine a thing then you should look.
Something you find at a hospital is medicine.
A chairman can chair a meeting.
A tree can shade the lawn.
Dogs can be kept as pets.
Something that might happen as a consequence of holiday shopping is buying presents.
a tire iron is an example of a tool.
Something you need to do before you bathe is run a bath.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in north America. 
You would take a break because you want rest.
A pacifier is a poor substitute for human attention.
Something you might do while walking in the rain is carry an umbrella.
You can use a door with a lock to keep people out.
A convex lens is a piece of transparent material that focuses electromagnetic radiation.
a man can desire a woman.
Something you find at a meeting is an agenda.
You are likely to find a kangaroo in Australia.
film is a temporary record.
a car transports people.
computers can do work.
Boiling water is hot.
contemplation is a human characteristic.
One of the things you do when you surprise someone is scare them.
a chapel is for meditation.
Parents can care for children.
A sphere is a one sided object.
Something you need to do before you sit quietly is find a chair.
Something you find in a country is a citizen.
mothers love babies.
You would kiss your boyfriend because you love him.
You would exercise because you want to stay fit.
A pen writes with ink.
studying for a subject is for learning it.
One of the things you do when you skate is alternate your legs.
The first thing you do when you sleep is close your eyes.
Plants grow in dirt.
Something you find at a state park is a ranger.
A manicure is a treatment for your hands.
You can use a bobby pin to hold hair in place.
a parkway is a wide road for vehicles.
speakers produce sound.
Fruit is a healthy source of food.
a person can smoke a cigar.
A CD is a medium that contains data.
A paradigm is a theoretical framework.
Something that might happen while doing housework is the house gets clean.
A horseshoe is a good-luck charm.
Chess is a game of strategy.
Having a beautiful, clean house is a lot of work.
A library is a good place to study.
Dusk is another name for sunset.
A thumbtack is sharp.
a euphemism is a substitution for an inappropriate word.
a person doesn't want to go to jail.
Shelter is a building that protects human beings.
champagne is served cold.
A shower is a form of bathing.
a paintbrush is used for painting.
A father is a very special person.
a person doesn't want to be embarrassed. 
a ball is another name for a sphere.
Oregano is a flower and an herb.
Earth has an atmosphere.
Paris is a very beautiful place.
Light bulbs need electricity to work.
playing is a way to learn social skills.
an ax is used for chopping wood.
Linen is a very durable fiber.
Dogs like to play.
You are likely to find a farmhouse in the country.
doctors wear white coats.
Play is a child's way of learning.
Flags are symbols.
A knight can ride a horse.
Ancient jewelry is an artifact.
Something you find at the MIT Media Lab is computers.
a person doesn't want sour milk.
a notepad is for writing notes.
winning a prize is a wonderful sensation.
going to the store is for buying things.
Something that might happen as a consequence of watching a TV show is you fall asleep.
A prison is a building designed to contain criminals.
hockey is a very good sport.
Lying is a bad action.
Sometimes seeing exhibits causes enjoyment.
a recipe is a set of instructions.
Poetry is a medium for people to express feelings.
skating is a activity.
a decanter is used for holding wine.
a Great Dane is a dog.
Environmental beauty is a responsibility.
A bunny is a young rabbit.
You are likely to find a potato in the root cellar.
An emerald is a hard, shiny, green jewel.
Dancing is a popular past-time.
A vat is a large tub that holds liquids.
dirty dishes are for washing.
a footstool is a small seat.
credit is a promise to pay with money at a future date.
A knack is any unlearned skill.
You are likely to find a postal counter in the post office.
A sprinkler is a device for watering your lawn.
theft is a crime.
Venus is an inner planet.
An adult can dress herself.
Taskent is a city in Uzbekistan.
A lodging is a temporary shelter.
A hammer is a heavy metal object used to drive nails into wood.
An oven can brown chicken.
Lesotho is a mountainous country.
reading is a common method for acquiring new knowledge.
Something you find in a restaurant is crab.
A playoff is a special type of game.
JPEG is a photographic file compression format.
If you want to buy a shirt then you should go to the store.
A tractor is an agricultural vehicle.
rabies is a contagious disease.
a meter is a metric measurement tortoises move slowly.
C is a procedural programming language.
Magnetic Resonance Imagery is a diagnostic technique used to see inside the body without cutting.
a crowd is a large group of people.
Horseback riding is a quiet way to enjoy nature.
Jan Vermeer is a famous Dutch painter.
Art deco is a decorative style characterized by its geometric patterns.
You would watch a movie because you are bored.
Changing the tire on a car is a pain.
Towel is a wash cloth.
A country is a geopolitical region of the world.
A dress is a piece of clothing with a top and a skirt.
ice hockey is a rugged game.
A network adapter is a device that physically connects your computer to the network.
Conferencing is a communications method which brings together groups with common interests.
A tuba is a large musical instrument.
part of the ceremony is a procession after the ceremony.
Something you find at an art show is a painting.
ASCII is a standard method for encoding characters.
A desert is a very dry place.
Conceptual artwork is artwork based on an idea.
Our Lady Peace is a Canadian band.
having an examination is for testing.
Tar is a substance used in roofing.
a metropolis is a large city.
wasting is a poor type of spending.
Earth is another word for soil.
A four leaf clover is a symbol of luck.
One of the things you do when you have Lyme disease is ache.
a wristwatch is a portable clock.
An icosahedron is a twenty-sided regular geometric solid.
A landmark is a physical object that people observe.
Pollution is a direct result of the industrial revolution.
an estate tax is a tax on inheritance.
Ping Pong is a good game to play with family.
An election is an opportunity to vote.
Permeability with only one fluid in the pores is absolute permeability.
A cart is a wheeled box used to transport things.
You are likely to find a sloth in south America. 
Indiana Jones is a fictional character.
cycling is a healthy way to travel.
Prince Edward Island is a Canadian province.
wind power is a useful method of locomotion.
Mare Boreum is a dark region on Mars.
a tattoo is an image embedded into the skin.
An ottoman is a person from the Ottoman Empire.
U2 is a pop band.
Australian Shooter is a magazine for sporting shooters.
a parkway is a type of highway.
Soho is an area in London.
Mont Blanc is a mountain in the Swiss Alps.
an orange is a citrus fruit.
A house is a good investment.
Mazda is a large corporation that makes cars.
a bone is a structural support.
Cheese is a popular topping for a potato.
One of the things you do when you take final exams is answer questions.
A red eye is a night flight on an airplane.
Elvis is an unusual name.
A rope is a flexible line of arbitrary length.
life is a complex highway.
Bonobo is a kind of ape.
Distance is an interval in space.
chocolate is a favorite food of some people.
A computer is a form of recording device.
marriage is a commitment between two people in love.
Riding a bike is a good source of exercise.
talking is an example of communication.
Japanese is a very different language than English.
a tower is a tall structure with stairs.
a fur is an article of clothing made from a fur bearing animal.
A pedicure is a treatment for your feet.
A leaf can fall from a tree.
Rubber is a flexible substance.
Total Quality Management is a way to increase the quality and productivity of products and services.
a county highway is a type of road.
a person wants to be right.
a bobby pin is a very small object.
erosion is a problem for agriculture on hilly and sloping lands.
Swimming is a better activity than getting caught smoking.
champagne is an alcoholic beverage chilled on ice.
A WAN is a wide area network.
space is empty.
A windmill is a tall building with a large assembly of rotating wings that turns wind power into useful energy.
A table is a unit of furniture used to set a lamp on.
writing is a pure form of communication.
abundant food is a workaday reality in modern America. 
a shelf is a flat place to store items.
cotton is a fiber from a plant.
Germany is a country of Europe.
man is a multi-dimensional being.
a globe is a spherical map of the earth.
A system is a defined way of doing something.
Cold soda pop is a refreshing drink on a hot day.
A sheepdog is a dog that helps guide sheep.
A bin is a convenient place to put rubbish.
sharing is a characteristic of human nature and a feature common to all cultures.
Swaying is a type of motion.
A rectangle is a closed shape with four sides at right angles.
basket weaving is an ancient craft.
Kitchen utensils are used for cooking.
A grinder is a tool for converting hard objects into small pieces.
Play is a form of exercise.
Barbecue is a type of cooking which usually includes a barbecue sauce.
A person can smoke a cigarette.
a wheelchair is a chair with wheels.
Combat is an unpleasant experience.
Wood is a very versatile building material.
An interstate highway is a paved path for automobiles in the united states.
5 Card Stud is a game of poker.
Prince Charles is a keen polo player.
Compliance with applicable statutes is a core company secretary role.
Forgetting is basically the reverse of remembering.
a piccolo is a woodwind instrument.
Cedar is an aromatic wood.
A baby is a young infant of any kind.
a marsh is a swampy area.
Debate is an argument that follows formal rules of proof and evidence.
Petunia is an annual plant.
Wasps are insects.
Geranium is an annual plant.
hockey is a fast action sport.
An account is a financial arrangement that keeps track of spending.
You are likely to find an office in an office building.
a mat is a flat floor covering.
A game die is a cube with spots on it.
Halloween is a great time of year.
A large city shopping mall is a boring and busy place.
Watching the Aurora Borealis in the northern night sky is a spectacular event.
a writing set is a thing to write with.
One of the things you do when you purchase a cellular phone is ask the salesperson about the features of the phone.
You are likely to find a ballpoint pen in a pocket.
anise is a small plant in the parsley family.
growing your own vegetables is a good way to supplement your dinner table.
A dolphin is any of various marine mammals.
You are likely to find a wife in your bed.
Mexican cooking is a form of general cooking.
A boat is a vessel that travels through water.
Playing tennis is a form of exercise.
Something you find in the air is a bald eagle.
Road Island is a state in the USA.
musical notation is a written language.
Emotional security is a feeling of well-being.
A torus is a doughnut-shaped object.
Karaoke is a way for people to sing in public places.
A dart is a sharp object.
Bloody Mary is a kind of alcoholic drink.
a tree is used for shade.
Lemonade is a popular beverage during the summer.
A map is a two-dimensional picture of a place.
An autobiography is a book about oneself.
Snobol is a computer programming language.
Libya is a lightish region on Mars.
Corn is a major food item.
Mercury is a poisonous metal.
Something you find at an apartment is people.
Moving from communism to capitalism is a daunting challenge for China.
Throwing darts at a dartboard is a game.
fudge is a tasty thing to eat.
A birthday is a special day.
Medea is an opera by Cherubini.
fruit is a better snack than candy.
politics is an activity where things are promised.
Captain Picard is a fictional character in Star Trek.
Something you find at a store is toys.
Space is a vast vacuum of emptiness.
You are likely to find water in a sink.
You are likely to find a snake in a pet store.
Something that might happen while advancing into battle is you get shot.
a roller coaster is an amusement that simulates changes in gravity.
a woodwind is used for making music.
An octahedron is an eight-sided regular geometric solid.
Quebec is part of Canada.
A film is a series of still pictures shown in rapid sequence.
You are likely to find a horse in a stall.
Few people work for themselves.
You are likely to find an account book in a bank.
a teacher is an expert in his field.
You are likely to find a woman in love.
A pair of trousers is a type of clothing that covers the legs and the lower abdomen.
Water from the ocean is salty.
a cloverleaf is an efficient method of transferring to new roads.
The effect of seeing people play a game is entertaining.
A hill is a big mound of earth.
You can use a pool to dive in.
ice hockey is a sport of both skill and brute force.
You are likely to find trash in a subway.
Minervois is a French red wine.
Something that might happen when you buy food is spend money.
One of the things you do when you bake a cake is add flour.
Something you find in the air is oxygen.
Something you find at a military base is barracks.
Something you find at school is textbooks.
water is a necessary component to life.
The effect of having a bath is clean skin.
You are likely to find a cow in a field. 
Sometimes dancing the samba causes sweating.
A simile is an example of figurative language.
You are likely to find a health food store in the mall.
You would take a bath because you're dirty.
Somewhere a letter can be is in an envelope.
a cemetery is a place to go to think about the meaning of life.
Somewhere a drunk can be is in a bar.
parsley is a herb.
You can use a wardrobe to hang your clothes in.
an ear is an opening in a person's head.
a person wants his children to be happy.
You would meet a friend because you want to talk to her.
Something you find in the air is dust.
a bow is a pretty thing for presents.
Every action has an equal and opposite reaction.
Something you find in the forest is lots of trees.
a decoy is a fake duck.
Something that might happen as a consequence of punching someone is being punched back.
Something you might do while going to market is buying food.
You would bake a cake because you want to have a birthday party.
apple pie is a traditional American desert.
a person wants promotion.
some vegetables grow on the ground.
You are likely to find a lemur in tropical forests.
leather is an expensive material.
A car can cost a lot of money.
You are likely to find a stage door in theaters. 
Teams play games against each other.
Miami is a city on the East coast of Florida.
You would cut your hair because it's too long.
Fruit is a healthy addition to the human diet.
Everybody dies.
Bob Dylan is a great blues artist.
If you want to go to get a haircut then you should go to an hairdresser.
a cemetery is for Burying people.
Some mistakes are not correctable.
parking area is a synonym for car park.
People like to dance.
smoking is a popular method of overcoming stress.
Wood is from trees.
riding horses is a powerful feeling.
Something that might happen while knitting is drop a stitch.
If you want to make a shopping list then you should have paper and pen.
a groundhog is a small animal.
a beauty salon is a place to get a makeover.
A classical concert is a formal event.
a shady path is an excellent place to take an afternoon walk.
Something you need to do before you talk to someone is think.
A computer is an electronic appliance.
a pump is a machine.
You are likely to find a duvet cover in the bedroom.
Bags can also hold things.
all art is an attempt to represent the natural beauty of the world.
You would have lunch because you want to eat.
Something you find in a drawer is a sock.
Something that might happen as a consequence of getting wet is cold.
Winning is a spectacular feeling.
You are likely to find a bar in the city.
Sea Water is salty.
You would run because you want exercise.
A technostructure is a large-scale corporate system.
Something you need to do before you stay in bed is get in bed.
A heptagon is a closed shape with seven sides.
bringing in a verdict requires judgment].
Cash is a liquid form of money.
A comb is for styling hair.
You are likely to find a map in an atlas.
Something that might happen when you play cards is winning.
A snowflake is an ice crystal.
a person can reply to an e-mail.
If you want to attend a meeting then you should go to the meeting.
A dog has teeth.
raising tropical fish in small aquariums is an inexpensive middle class hobby.
You are likely to find a bureau in a bedroom.
You are likely to find a front garden in the front yard.
a plant is alive.
Photography is a popular hobby.
painting a house requires paint.
You are likely to find a main artery in a body.
You are likely to find a mailbox in the post office.
film is a great way of preserving past and ideas.
machines can break down.
a mother gives birth to a child.
riding a bike requires balance.
Watching fish in an aquarium is a calming experience.
You can use a hairbrush to comb your hair.
Something you find at an opera is singing.
Something you find in orbit is space junk.
A fountain pen is an elegant piece of writing equipment.
Something you find at a gallery opening is art.
You would make bread because you want to eat some bread.
Something you find at a train station is people.
"American as apple pie" is a common cliché in America.
You are likely to find a telephone book in a telephone booth.
Something you find at the theater is actors.
You are likely to find an electronic appliance in a kitchen.
Using computers is a way to reduce paper waste.
Sometimes printing on the printer causes paper jams.
You can use a fitting room to change clothing.
A genre is a type of something.
Sometimes singing causes happiness.
a cloth linen is a fabric.
sushi is often raw fish.
An octopus is a kind of fish.
a bar is for getting drunk.
a hat is for protecting the head.
A garden is a space for growing plants.
The effect of waiting for someone is boredom.
You are likely to find a faucet overflow in the bathroom.
You are likely to find a crab in shallow water.
A host computer is a computer that manages information for many terminals.
You are likely to find a prosthesis in a hospital.
One of the things you do when you pass your university exams is celebrate.
A tablespoon is a measurement.
An alarm clock is used to wake people up.
You can use a cannon to shoot a cannon ball.
A birthday would make you want to have a party.
A pup is a young dog.
Logic is a process of solving problems with reason and emotion.
being with friends would make you want to talk.
boredom would make you want to surf the net.
You are likely to find a beach towel in a linen closet.
Something that might happen while gathering energy for tomorrow is you eat well.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in the Atlantic Ocean.
A refrigerator freezer is a freezer in a refrigerator that contains frozen food.
Sometimes going to a performance causes boredom.
geography is a science dealing with the description of a planet's surface.
Something that might happen while going to the zoo is you see bears.
Mare Tyrrhenum is a dark region on Mars.
The effect of going to a sporting event is fun and excitement.
Fruit is good.
eating healthily requires fruit.
Chrysokeras is a darkish region on Mars.
Sometimes buying a shirt causes a lack of money.
You are likely to find a weasel in politics.
graduating would make you want to have a party.
PPP is a method of connecting to the Internet via dial-up connection.
Something you might do while taping a television show is fall asleep.
A bikini is a two piece bathing suit.
having a shower is for washing.
A battery is a man-made thing.
You can use a machine to work.
a plate is used for eating from.
You can use an ergonomic chair to be comfortable.
A hoop is a sphere with a hole in it.
You would sit down because your legs are tired.
a watch is used for keeping track of time.
A cactus is a type of plant.
television is a good way to spend time.
Something you find at a home is a telephone.
Speed boats can be very dangerous.
A pew is a place for people to sit.
a diamond is used for cutting.
committing to memory is for memorizing.
Something you need to do before you chop firewood is sharpen an axe.
blue tip juniper is a plant.
playing is for learning.
a person doesn't want to be in a traffic-jam.
England is a country.
blue star juniper is a plant.
a person wants a nice place to live.
Something you find in space is meteors.
You are likely to find a human in civilizations.
You are likely to find plants in the countryside.
The effect of answering questions is teaching.
You are likely to find a checkbook cover in a purse.
kernel is part of an Operating System.
Richard Hammond is the Hamster.
paper crumples.
listening to the radio requires tuning in a station.
cleaning your clothes requires water and soap.
You are likely to find an exam table in school.
chatting with friends is for gossiping.
being at a party would make you want to drink alcohol.
Something you find in bed is people.
Something you find at a roadblock is barriers.
People can close doors.
Mercury is a liquid at room temperature.
If you want to make a patchwork quilt then you should learn to sew.
an arm is for waving.
You are likely to find a dance club in a city.
Something you find under the closet is a floorboard.
Something you might do while creating an idea is brainstorming.
An activity a child can do is play.
a billfold is for holding money.
ears are on a head.
You are likely to find clippers in a drawer.
a person wants gifts.
You can use a skylight to let in light.
conquering your opponent is for winning the game.
You are likely to find a letter scale in a post office.
chewing your food requires moving your jaws.
You are likely to find a salad spinner in a kitchen.
Sometimes celebrating causes a hangover.
a book is used for entertainment.
Something you find behind the fridge is dust bunnies.
Something you find in the street is stripes.
sewing is a hobby.
Another name for a superhighway is a freeway.
If you want to send e-mail then you should turn on the computer.
You can use a graphite pencil to write on paper.
giving assistance is for helping.
Something you need to do before you go on a vacation is pack.
A crane is a kind of bird.
a person wants enough sleep.
Something you find on a shelf is a knick-knack.
Something that might happen when you wrestle is sweat.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to a restaurant is you eat.
You are likely to find a hotdog in a restaurant.
Something you find at the bottom of the sea is sunken ships.
A rubber duck is a bath toy for children.
Mexico is south of the United States.
Something you find at an opera is a program.
cats can not fly.
a basketball court is a flat, planar, hard area for playing basketball.
Rain can wet the ground.
Something you might do while seeing old things is reminisce.
Something you might do while discovering the truth is ask questions.
You can use a strip mall to shop for things.
You can use a viola to play music.
You can use an oboe to play music.
You would go to the mall because you want to eat.
You are likely to find an anemone in an aquarium.
Something you might do while going jogging is listening to music.
a blanket is used for sleeping under.
Something that might happen when you attend a classical concert is you have fun.
waiting for someone requires patience.
You can use an electronics store to buy electronics.
You are likely to find a mezzanine in a theater.
a mailman puts mail in a mailbox.
One of the things you do when you kill is shoot.
If you want to enjoy a film then you should buy a ticket.
You would tie your shoelace because you want to wear shoes.
a drawer is used to hold things.
A vine is a plant.
Something you might do while waiting tables is clean off the table.
pay day is a fun day.
a woman can wear a dress.
a person doesn't want annoyance.
a person doesn't want danger.
Sometimes meeting a friend causes panic.
Laziness would make you want to eat breakfast in bed.
Venus is the second planet from the Sun.
Somewhere a boy can be is in school.
a watch is used for time.
You are likely to find a fox in England.
You can use a clothing store to buy clothes.
rain would make you want to repair an umbrella.
humans are people.
Glass is a solid.
If you want to buy fresh fruits and vegetables then you should go to a market.
You are likely to find a koala in a forest.
You can use a changing room to change clothes.
Paper can cover a rock.
Pottery is an art form.
an isle is used for walking.
Something you find at the top of a mountain is a peak.
Rain is water falling from the sky.
Paris is the capital of France. 
You are likely to find linoleum in a bathroom.
lighting a fire is for cooking food.
sounds are vibrations in the air.
Sometimes skating causes falling.
A person wants more information.
Sometimes dying causes something to change color.
If you want to wrestle then you should join the wrestling team.
You can use a graveyard to bury the dead.
death is sad.
hearing testimony is for juries.
mountains are beautiful.
A teacher can help a student.
a manila folder is for organizing paper.
Something you might do while releasing your energy is sweat.
Something you need to do before you buy a shirt is know your size.
a violin is a musical string instrument.
a teacher can explain concepts.
People like to be entertained.
the USA is a country.
Most people enjoy fishing.
restaurants are eating places.
an orchestra pit is for The musicians.
yellow is a primary color.
You are likely to find a fungus in the shower.
a motorcycle has two wheels.
students can study math.
Trees have leaves on their branches.
a farmer can farm corn.
paper can be burned.
writing a poem is for expressing emotion.
many people enjoy riding roller coasters.
driving a car is for going somewhere.
Something that might happen as a consequence of making a phone call is annoying someone.
a squirrel can gather nuts.
copper is a metal.
A crocodile is a reptile.
You are likely to find a barn in the country.
My mother is part of my family.
needing a computer program would make you want to program.
If you want to record something then you should record something.
Austria is a country.
Fish need water to live in.
Something you find at a wedding is a wedding cake.
a refrigerator is used for storing foods.
If you want to kiss someone then you should brush your teeth.
The Earth is not a ball.
A bassoon is an instrument.
a person wants security.
a ball is for bouncing.
decoys can look real.
Sometimes planning a vacation causes stress.
the moon can circle the earth.
You are likely to find an auditorium in a school.
If you want to take the car for a drive then you should get in a car.
The first thing you do when you make a phone call is dial a number.
a person doesn't want a paper-cut.
a linen closet is used for keeping sheets.
A person doesn't want frustration.
Nuts and bolts are used to hold some things together.
Sometimes fighting war causes deaths.
Something you find at a bar is a glass.
A person doesn't want to die alone.
Something that might happen when you take the stand is you swear to tell the truth.
everyone makes mistakes.
eating dinner requires food.
Something that might happen when you go to a performance is you applaud.
a football field is used for playing football.
Something you find at a neighbor's house is a neighbor. 
You are likely to find a gazelle in a grassland.
Bacteria do not have eyes.
a tree is part of a forest.
One of the things you do when you learn a language is practice.
Something you find at a mall is parking lots.
Hands are used to hold things.
A forest has many trees.
Something you might do while entertaining people is tell a joke.
The human body is mostly water.
Pheasant is a bird.
a pistol is used for shooting.
an entranceway is for entering.
A ruler can measure distance.
eating breakfast in bed is for being lazy.
Cows can give milk.
entertaining someone is for having fun.
cars drive on a road.
You can use a king to rule a country.
some horses wear shoes.
Something you find at a toy store is a teddy bear.
shopping is for buying goods.
a dog can not talk.
taking a walk is for getting exercise.
a pen is a writing instrument.
Cinnamon is a spice.
Apples can be yellow.
An orange has rind.
a person wants options.
bones contain calcium.
light can travel very fast.
Something that might happen when you please your parents is a reward.
You are likely to find a printer in an office.
sharp things can hurt you.
A cat can drink milk.
a comb is used for hair.
You would study for a subject because you want to learn it.
doing some exercises is for fitness.
You are likely to find urine in the toilet.
Something you find in class is textbooks.
expressing information is for communication.
You are likely to find ducks in a pond.
Something you need to do before you maintain muscle strength is lift weights.
A city is in a county.
A parabola is an open plane curve formed by the intersection of a cone with a plane parallel to its side.
Something that might happen as a consequence of howling with laughter is having tears in your eyes.
An organ is an instrument.
If you want to watch a film then you should buy a ticket.
A box of chocolates is a traditional Valentine's present.
Something that might happen as a consequence of competing against someone is losing.
Justice is hardly ever equal.
a doctor can help a patient.
A veranda is a covered porch that surrounds at least one side of a house.
You are likely to find a statement in the newspaper.
TMBG is a good band.
South America is a continent.
hearing testimony requires ears.
Something that might happen while visiting a museum is learning.
Badminton is an Olympic sport.
If you want to wash clothes then you should buy detergent.
Sweating is a natural and involuntary way to cool a human body.
watching a film is for fun.
A meadow is a low, flat grassland.
No two snowflakes are alike.
A queen is a hereditary ruler of a country.
scissors can cut.
journalism is a type of news coverage.
Something you find on the beach is a surfer.
A scroll is a long, rolled up piece of paper.
If you want to have an examination then you should see a doctor.
another word for a moon is a satellite.
sports are competitive.
sushi is a Japanese way of preparing and presenting food.
The world is diverse.
a trophy is acknowledgement of a special achievement.
You are likely to find a mouse in a hole.
BSE is an infectious disease.
If you want to get a good grade then you should study hard.
apples have seeds.
A wagon has wheels.
Sauna is a Finnish word for sauna.
Microsoft is a corporation.
Moscow is a city in the former Soviet Union.
A doctor cures people.
A soap dish is a dish that you put soap in.
If you want to pee then you should find a toilet.
grilling is a healthy way to prepare meat for dinner.
a memo pad is used for taking notes.
oxygen is a gas at room temperature.
Something you need to do before you eat lunch is get food.
Kampyo maki is a kind of sushi that does not contain fish.
You are likely to find a ferret in a burrow.
An umbrella is a simple device that you hold to shield yourself from rain.
ignorance is bliss.
yeast is a single-celled plant used in brewing and baking.
going to a movie is for having a date with someone.
a courtyard is a pleasant place to spend a sunny summer afternoon.
Great Britain is a large island.
A gun is a surfboard with a certain shape for riding big waves.
creating an idea requires some thought.
Hawaii is a popular vacation destination.
Fish eat other fish.
Ashley is a university.
An offering is a presentation to a deity as an act of religious worship.
Unix is an operating system common across a range of computers.
An octagon is a closed shape with eight sides.
Taking a bath is an example of a scene and place.
OpenMind is an interesting hobby for some people.
tin foil is an excellent insulator.
A story is a clever inventory of observations.
A woman is a female person.
pipe smoking is a cross-cultural phenomenon.
The effect of lighting a fire is heat.
horseback riding is a fun sport.
Saloon is an old west name for a tavern.
A computer is a toy for adults.
A rubber chicken is a silly object used to make people laugh.
Nature is an awesome power.
A cailleach bheur is a triple being in Celtic lore.
Agoraphobia is a phobia associated with fear of being in public.
A boat is a mode of transportation used on the water.
Saturday is a day that many people do not work.
One of the things you do when you eat vegetables is absorb vitamins.
outer space is a big place.
An old pocket watch is a beautiful timepiece.
typing is a form of communication.
This map is also a beautiful work of art.
Fishing is an enjoyable recreation.
washing cloths is a woman's job.
a rifle is a long range small arm.
a sandal is a type of open shoe for hot weather.
film is an artistic expression.
Security is a race between designers and penetrators.
a union is a collective bargaining unit.
practicing against other people is a good way to learn chess.
a sport is a physical activity with a goal.
death is a sad occasion.
Hiking is a popular recreation.
a decoy is a wooden duck.
Mont Blanc is a mountain in France.
Pepsi is a popular carbonated drink.
smoking is a bad habit.
Usenet is anarchy.
horsemanship is an expensive pastime for the wealthy class. 
HU is an ancient name for God.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in a pet store.
gas is a vapor.
Kermit the frog is a frog puppet.
A globe is a map in 3 dimensions.
Oldsmobile is a brand name for a car.
Waikiki is a tourist destination in the Hawaiian Islands.
Rich is a name for a male.
a shopping center is a gap for consumers.
You are likely to find a horse in races.
A contingent fee is an additional fee which is based on successful accomplishment.
Killing time is a perfect application for mobile devices.
Giuseppe Verdi is a famous Italian opera composer.
Tamil is a very ancient language.
A tongue is a muscle in your mouth.
a straight flush is a pretty good hand.
One of the things you do when you improve your image is apply mascara.
an oven is an enclosed baking chamber.
A movie theater is a dark place.
kitty is a term of endearment for a cat.
An equilateral triangle is a polygon with three sides that are all equal in length.
an ear is an organ for collecting sounds.
A computed field is a special kind of number field.
Saturday is a weekend day.
Iapygia is a darkish region on Mars.
Juventae Fons is a dark region on Mars.
Fun is an important activity for humans.
Installing Norton Internet Security is a simple process that also installs Norton Anti Virus. 
a baseball bat is a long round tapered object.
Music is a way for people to express themselves with different sounds.
Spilling coffee over things is a common type of minor accident.
Sunset is a lovely time to ride your bike.
You are likely to find a tennis ball in a tennis court.
botany is a branch of biology.
atheists can doubt the existence of god.
smoking is an expensive habit.
A man in a tailored suit is a good thing.
Sound is a wave that travels in a fluid.
You are likely to find a Frisbee in a toy store.
weasels are mammals.
If you want to wash clothes then you should use a washing machine.
staying in bed is for sleeping in.
Something you find at an art show is oil paintings.
Something you find at an art show is pictures.
Something you need to do before you go see a play is purchase a ticket.
Being cold would make you want to chop firewood.
Something you find at a bus stop is panhandlers.
A gardener can plant roses.
some eyes are blue.
A storage pan is a container.
People need oxygen to live.
Most years are 365 days long.
Something you find in a building is electrical wiring.
a person wants some spare time.
nursing patients is an activity.
An eagle can soar.
dark glasses are for shielding a person's eyes from other people's eyes.
A boss can fire a worker.
trains run on tracks.
If you want to take an oath then you should be truthful.
The last thing you do when you stop your bicycle is put your feet to the ground.
people wear masks to hide their identity.
Something you find at a demonstration is protesters.
Something that might happen when you agree with someone is thermonuclear war.
You are likely to find a bus in the city.
a radiator is for providing heat in a building.
a family room usually has a television set.
a virus can infect.
a person doesn't want to lose their limbs.
technology is always changing.
playing chess is for socializing.
the boot is black.
The effect of releasing your energy is wonderful.
wax can melt.
You are likely to find a bee in a field of flowers.
a sentry can sound an alarm.
a couch is for lying on it.
You would surf the net because you were looking for information.
The last thing you do when you wash your car is dry your car.
Something you find in the ocean is a shell.
You are likely to find a needle in a sewing kit.
Something you find in a backpack is a sleeping bag.
bicycle wheels have spokes.
You are likely to find a lizard in a wall.
animals can grow.
Rain falls from the clouds in the sky.
wood can be used to build boats.
Something you might do while singing is forget the right words.
The first thing you do when you run errands is make a list.
Earwig is an insect.
hunger would make you want to have food.
The waters wear the stones.
Something you find at a hockey game is a goalie.
a person doesn't want anxiety.
Sometimes walking the dog causes sore feet.
Something you find in a cookie jar is an Oreo.
You are likely to find a game in a casino.
Something you need to do before you compete is practice a skill.
Long hair dries slowly.
eyeglasses are used for correcting vision.
Penguins are flightless birds.
The effect of creating an idea is thought.
Sometimes buying presents for others causes jealousy.
You are likely to find a small dog in a living room.
playing sport is for exercise. 
If you want to cook then you should have food.
Something that might happen when you paint a picture is getting paint on yourself.
If you want to go fishing then you should bait the hook.
The Internet is actually a sum of several small networks.
You are likely to find a bee in an orchard.
a steel pen is used for writing.
If you want to read a book then you should have eyes.
The effect of visiting other countries is gaining knowledge.
You are likely to find a ficus in a large pot.
You would go to a sporting event because you support a team.
If you want to attend a meeting then you should be on time.
a house contains rooms.
a person wants an English house.
salt is for seasoning food.
Babies can wave bye-bye.
One of the things you do when you watch a television show is eat a snack.
ribbons are usually for decoration.
sitting on a chair is for resting your feet.
If you want to create something to help other people then you should be an inventor.
There's a hole in my sock.
a chesterfield is for sitting on.
a military plane.
You would go to bed because you want to take a nap.
If you want to take the bus then you should buy a bus pass.
cloth is for covering skin.
baseball is America's favorite pastime.
a person doesn't want to be tricked.
a hair conditioner is for Softening hair.
bows go on packages.
Sometimes riding a bike causes an accident.
old books are dusty.
making it grow is for plants.
bats have wings.
Paper deteriorates with age.
Cartoons are art.
Tires can become flat.
the pin has a sharp point.
needing a good result would make you want to follow a recipe.
TV is the same as television.
spending money requires choosing something to buy.
sleeping is for passing time.
a chess queen is one piece used in the game of chess.
Kangaroos live in Australia. 
The effect of passing a class is taking another one.
meditation can relax the mind and body.
You would act in a play because you want attention.
your home is your castle.
Plants can be poisonous. 
a person wants a happy family.
a goldfish is a fish.
Something you find at the theater is a curtain.
You are likely to find a human in a big city.
Tall people have an advantage in basketball.
Something that might happen as a consequence of knitting is you relax.
Singing is an art form.
cooling off requires a breeze.
Something you need to do before you soak in a hot spring is find a hot spring. 
A librarian can sort books.
You would get up early because you don't want to be late.
Sometimes conquering your opponent causes anger.
mice are small animals.
Something you find at the repair shop is broken cars.
Misery wants company.
riding a bicycle requires movement.
the sky gets red during sunset and sunrise.
a runway is for landing planes.
a stream is for fishing.
Sometimes waiting your turn causes frustration.
the statue of liberty is in new York city.
paying the bills requires a check book.
You are likely to find a haircloth in a bathroom.
Something that might happen when you memorize is you know.
Volkswagen is a type of car.
A marker is a type of pen.
You are likely to find a storm in the summer.
Something that might happen while losing weight is you feel faint.
a person wants to be young forever.
Something that might happen while running after the ball is you step on flowers.
pumps are devices used to inflate things.
If you want to go to sleep then you should lay down.
Alberta is part of Canada.
Something you need to do before you ski is put on skis.
You are likely to find salt in a shaker.
You are likely to find a barber comb in a barbershop.
a cup is used for measuring liquids.
Sometimes playing baseball causes strikes.
You are likely to find a soul in a person.
You are likely to find a reception in a wedding.
limes are fruit.
A quarter is worth twenty five cents.
Something that might happen while changing society is the society is changed.
words can be misspelled.
a cash token is used for riding the subway.
Old people can play golf.
You can use a chapel to get married.
Something you might do while enjoying the day is take it easy.
geranium is a flower.
a person wants a place to live.
some buildings are white.
a family usually has children.
You are likely to find a bridge in San Francisco. 
books can belong on shelves.
a snail is slow.
the flag is a national symbol.
If you want to have a heart attack then you should take aspirin.
You are likely to find an apple tree in new York. 
needles are used for acupuncture.
A cricket sings by rubbing its hind legs together.
Apple juice is a liquid.
you can use a park bench to catch your breath.
Kansas is a state.
playing basketball is for making money.
One of the things you do when you play the violin is use the bow.
People work for money.
An activity a mason can do is lay bricks.
If you want to remember then you should not forget.
Something you find at a Internet cafe is a human.
The effect of taking a bath is smelling good.
If you want to move a car then you should turn on the car.
You would make bread because you want to eat it.
a person doesn't want a boring job.
The effect of thinking is the best way.
Something you find at a church is a hymn book.
The last thing you do when you celebrate is clean up.
Weapons are destructive.
Something that might happen when you buy something for a loved one is more love.
going to market is for fun.
needing beer would make you want to go to the store.
A submarine moves underwater.
Something that might happen while breathing some fresh air is you get a sunburn.
Yo-yos are cool toys.
enjoying the day requires an attitude.
One of the things you do when you have a conversation is listen to the other person.
Something you might do while driving is sing.
If you want to maintain good health then you should visit a doctor regularly.
You would have a physical exam because you want to join the Army.
Tobacco causes lung cancer.
Sometimes grooming causes mistakes.
Some cats are gentle.
If you want to fight war then you should declare war.
The moon is in orbit around the earth.
climbing requires dexterity.
Some people like to eat raw fish.
Something you find at the theater is a stage.
Old people are generally annoying.
Something you find at a party is alcohol. 
You are likely to find a beverage service in an airplane.
going to get a haircut requires scissors.
bridges allow people and vehicles to cross bodies of water.
Thomas Jefferson was a noble man.
If you want to get arrested then you should punch a policeman.
fairies would make you want to hear music.
singing is a type of music.
Something that might happen when you create art is you have fun.
The pirate set up a cannon on the deck of his ship.
playing ball requires coordination.
You are likely to find a fungus in old cheese.
Something that might happen while going for a jog is you have fun.
a cellar is used for storing wine.
Something you might do while playing football is run.
You are likely to find an apple tree in the countryside.
A competitive nature would make you want to play sports.
You would go to the mall because you want to shop.
running would make you want to sit down.
Some clocks have alarms.
Something that might happen when you entertain someone is you have fun.
a leaf is usually green.
If you want to skate then you should buy skates.
some dogs like to play with Frisbees. 
taking an exam is for getting a good grade.
One of the things you do when you take a bath is wash your hair.
a person wants to live freely.
A human can be good.
skiing requires tying boards on your feet and jumping off a mountain.
Something you find on a pizza is green peppers.
Studying in a group can be helpful.
the Pacific Ocean is used for swimming in.
You would wash your hands because they are dirty.
Tornadoes sound like trains.
Something you find in the street is chewing gum.
Children can not take care of themselves.
Elvis is dead.
Something you find in the loft is boxes.
cities have many tall buildings.
a jury decides the verdict in a trial.
houses have furniture.
You are likely to find music in a night club.
You are likely to find a heated towel rack in a bathroom.
Something you find at a store is a cashier.
cigarettes are made from tobacco.
Something that might happen when you tell a story is having people listen to you.
sleeping at night is for resting your body.
You would bake a cake because it's someone's birthday.
Popcorn at a movie is expensive.
Something that might happen while making friends is conversation.
Trash is often put in bags.
You are likely to find gas in the gas station.
Cash is another word for money.
Something you find under a log is insects.
Something you find in the corner is a lamp.
seeing a band is for your enjoyment.
You are likely to find a telephone index in the Internet.
Something you find on a desk is a coaster.
You can use a candle to light a room.
Living things grow.
the Sun emits light.
People like to swim.
a mask is a disguise.
You can use a row house to live in.
Something that might happen as a consequence of teaching is learning.
You would run in a marathon because you enjoy challenging yourself.
Something that might happen when you cook dinner is the dog smells it.
skin is the largest organ of the human body.
a plunger is used to unplug drains.
a person wants to be enlightened.
a boat has sails.
clouds can rain on earth.
A foundation is part of a house.
dancing is for enjoying yourself.
Something that might happen when you go to get a haircut is it gets messed up.
going for a jog is for jogging.
people can face each other.
going to a sporting event is for entertainment.
You would do housework because you like a clean house.
listening to the radio is for entertainment.
Neptune is usually the eighth planet from the sun.
still water reflects light.
music is pretty.
flowers are nice.
An umbrella protects from water.
penguins are funny looking.
a person doesn't want to experience pain.
You are likely to find a fitting room in a department store.
opening a bag of chips is for having a snack.
tractors are used on farms.
falling down hurts.
Something you might do while expressing information is send email.
Something you need to do before you get wet is be near water.
You can use a toothpaste to freshen breath.
Something you find at confession is a priest. 
the human eye has many parts.
You are likely to find a mouse in a computer store.
a hair roller is used for rolling hair.
Groundhogs are rodents.
Something you find at the supermarket is a cashier.
flowers need to be watered.
You would listen to the radio because you like music.
You are likely to find a sloth in the woods.
Buildings usually have many windows.
The first thing you do when you take a shower is turn on the water.
a bookshelf is for displaying books.
dancing is a form of exercise.
The first thing you do when you sleep at night is close the eyes.
Some people are ignorant.
playing Frisbee is for playing in the park.
You are likely to find vinyl in records.
a person wants to feel safe.
One of the things you do when you view a video is turn on the TV. 
A fox is an animal.
A bow is a kind of knot.
a cat can wash itself.
Something you find at the movies is gum.
an attic is part of a house.
Something that might happen when you talk is you make gestures.
Jesus was a Jew.
Aches cause pain.
Israel is full of Jews. 
Something that might happen as a consequence of reproducing is having a baby.
Something that might happen while standing in a queue is getting sore feet.
cooking dinner is for having dinner.
A cricket is a kind of insect, and also a sport.
people lie for many reasons.
yellow is a color. 
a mouth is for singing.
You would go see a film because you want to be entertained.
people like to be with their friends.
a house is used for residency.
If you want to read a book then you should learn to read.
Something you find at a party is snacks.
Something you find in a bedroom is pajamas. 
Love must be given freely.
If you want to go on the Internet then you should log on.
a person wants beans.
Bread contains yeast.
JavaScript is a programming language.
You are likely to find a vessel in the ocean.
Books are a source of information.
getting some physical activity requires standing up.
A bass clarinet is a musical instrument.
The effect of leaving the line is losing your place in the line.
An up quark is part of a sigma0.
sending e-mail requires an Internet connection.
email is electronic mail.
IP routes packets to the appropriate destinations.
Oak Park is in Illinois.
a revolution can shake a government.
setting a cup on a table is for convenience.
a tie is neck wear.
a person wants kisses.
Something you find at a grocery store is soup.
penguins live in cold weather.
The fourth day of the week is Wednesday.
a pony is a small horse.
a nail is a piece of metal.
Sometimes memorizing causes you to know the periodic tables.
a gym is a place.
Air is a mixture of gases.
Something you find in a field is bugs.
Squeezing someone hard can cause pain.
You can use a faucet to get water.
Sentient beings can choose for themselves. 
a person can leave a place.
You are likely to find a cereal bowl in the kitchen cabinet.
children can watch television.
The Internet was originally a research project of the DARPA.
You can use a stick of butter to present butter with a meal.
Elmer's glue is white.
You are likely to find a lawn in a yard.
You are likely to find a horse in a corral.
Something that might happen when you buy a house is examining the lighting.
Appearances can be deceiving.
enjoying the company of your friends is for happiness.
Something you find at the library is a quiet place to study.
Something you might do while staying fit is work out.
Something that might happen when you program is you become more logically-minded.
purchasing a cellular phone is for staying in touch.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking final exams is receiving a grade.
Metals are electrical conductors.
Something you find at the supermarket is cheese.
Chlorine is an irritant.
Something you find in the kitchen is small appliances.
going for a haircut is for having shorter hair.
sleeping at night is for getting rest.
cars can move people.
a person wants to have a fun weekend.
You can use a wedding chapel to get married in.
Emus can not fly.
You can use an envelope to send a letter.
Something you find on a freeway is road kill.
Something that might happen while having friends over is conversation.
Something you find in the belly of a whale is Jonah.
Something that might happen while making people laugh is acting silly.
entertaining someone requires talent.
beer is wet.
forgetting something would make you want to commit it to memory.
Bass is a sound that is deep and booming.
Something you find at the end of a line is a fish.
A subway is a train in a tunnel under the ground.
You are likely to find a mouse in Disneyland.
information is made of bits.
going to the zoo is for learning about the animals.
An activity the Thought Police can do is arrest you for thought crime. 
Parents can feed their child.
Page Maker is a desktop publishing application.
You are likely to find a net in a fisherman's boat.
Death is a possible outcome of judicial activity.
One of the things you do when you go see a play is buy a ticket.
Industrial strength H2O2 is a strong oxidizer.
Something you find on the windowsill is a flowerpot.
Little Gem Arborvitae is a tree.
The Eiffel Tower is in France.
having a physical examination is for determining health.
A lane is another word for street.
a nostril is a hole.
You can use a harmonica to play a tune.
You can use bleachers to sit on.
Alcohol is an instance of a drug.
junk is a ship.
Potassium is an alkaline metal.
Something you find at a bar is drunk people.
CAS is an acronym for 'Corporate Affairs System'.
If you want to go to a play then you should be on time.
alarm clocks wake people up.
A toilet is indoor plumbing that flushes out human waste with water.
A wedding is a joyous event.
a dead dog can not bark.
An airplane is a large machine with wings.
plant leaves are green.
A plunger is a tool for plumbing.
One of the things you do when you socialize is meet new people.
a flag is a piece of cloth with specific colors or symbols that represents a country.
people want to be liked.
An ellipse is a conic section.
a footstool is for resting your feet.
Earth's atmosphere is air.
people think.
Somewhere junk can be is in the cellar.
You can use a fare card to travel.
Something you find under a tree is moss.
An activity a pirate can do is sail a ship.
a Libertarian doesn't want the government to control his life.
Something you find on your finger is a scar.
driving is used for transportation.
Raining is one type of weather.
a person doesn't want to get drunk.
punishing someone is for teaching.
The last thing you do when you get warm is stop shivering.
You are likely to find an egg in a hen house. 
having guests would make you want to cook dinner.
going to a performance is for enjoyment.
One of the things you do when you talk to someone is think.
a sofa is a place to sit.
You are likely to find seats on or in a house.
A pen is a device for producing permanent markings on paper.
Fish need water to survive.
A piccolo is a small flute.
A chicken is a biped.
yacht racing is an extremely expensive sport.
Singers sing with a microphone.
Water is a reflective surface.
going for a haircut is for looking good.
Meditation is a state of reflection and contemplation.
Something you find in the street is a ball.
conquering your opponent is for winning the battle.
The first thing you do when you apply for a job is fill out an application.
You can use a carafe to serve wine.
a man wants to be famous.
A story can continue.
Kirlian photography is a form of photography that captures electromagnetic fields instead of light.
ice cream is a kind of a type of food.
One of the things you do when you problem solve is create an axiom.
A T-shirt is an example of clothes; it is worn in hot weather.
a fishbowl is made of glass.
writing is for expressing feelings.
The effect of programming is creating programs.
a discotheque is used for fun.
a gerbil requires water.
You would return to work because you want money.
New York is part of the United States of America.
remembering something is for knowing.
playing a harp is for angels.
Birds do not have teeth.
You would eat because you want to eliminate hunger pains from your stomach.
a chess pawn is used for chess games.
One of the things you do when you get hurt is cry.
Something you find at the beach is litter.
You are likely to find a pillow on or in a house.
attending school requires a teacher.
painting a house is for changing the color of a house.
A baseball diamond has an outfield.
Raising children is a difficult job.
writing a letter requires paper.
going for a walk is for going to a place.
Animals want to live.
If you want to run in a marathon then you should practice.
eggs are blue.
Something that might happen when you write a story is you use your imagination.
Florida is a favorite vacation destination.
sailboats have a mast.
Something you might do while running out of steam is slow down.
A desire to share knowledge would make you want to teach other people.
Leather is a good material to manufacture jackets.
Soldiers go to war.
Something that might happen when you climb is you get higher.
Sometimes talking causes a sore throat.
a dog is an example of a pet.
Something you might do while taking a bath is wash yourself.
bathing is for getting bodies clean.
Antarctica is part of Earth.
toilets can be flushed.
Something you find in the trash is junk mail.
a fluoride toothpaste is for keeping teeth clean.
Snakes have scales.
You can use a footstool to reach a high shelf.
Something that might happen when you go to a restaurant is ordering a meal.
a person wants a new bicycle.
math is a subject. 
students at school have to study.
You can use a computer to send email.
The first thing you do when you tie your shoelace is bend over.
You are likely to find a gazelle in the stomach of a lion.
getting some money from someone is for having more money.
a salad bowl is for serving salads.
The effect of getting some physical activity is fatigue.
American express is a credit card company.
Something you might do while having a rest is stretching.
a brush is for painting.
Something you find on a shelf is bookends.
The first thing you do when you make bread is gather ingredients.
a person doesn't want to lose.
If you want to study for a subject then you should buy some books about the subject.
You are likely to find god in the imagination.
discovering the truth is for philosophers.
Something that might happen while going into a trance is you relax.
Something that might happen as a consequence of praying is wasted time.
Sometimes going to work causes stress.
You can use a candle to provide light.
If you want to make people laugh then you should tell a funny joke.
You are likely to find a snake in the rain forest.
a corner grocery is a store on a street corner.
The last thing you do when you eat dinner is wash dishes.
Austin is part of Texas. 
Water can short out electrical circuits.
A statue is an inanimate object in the form of a living creature.
A mother can quiet a crying baby.
one of the things you do when you have a party is listen to music.
People can be honest.
glaciers are made of ice.
bringing suit requires damages.
You are likely to find a mouse in a room with a computer.
tying a shoelace is for keeping the shoe on a foot.
Paper is a solid fuel.
a mirror is used for light reflection.
some people live to be 100 years old.
a movie theater shows movies.
a board game is a nice way to pass the time on a rainy day.
A dresser holds cloths.
You can use a tablespoon to eat soup.
You are likely to find a monitor wall in studios.
A factory is a company that makes things.
Something you might do while surprising someone is jump out.
climbing is for having fun.
Something you find in the trash is trash.
lighters can be used for making fire.
Something you find at a demonstration is people.
Water is Life.
You are likely to find an armoire in a furniture store.
a sardonyx is a precious stone.
fans cool people down.
You would stay in bed because you want more rest.
Something you might do while getting in line is push.
a bus is an efficient way of transporting many people at once.
Wool is a natural fiber.
You can use eyeglasses to improve vision.
Something that might happen when you take a walk is meeting a friend.
A mine is a man-made cave in the ground.
You are likely to find a delicatessen in any large city.
Microorganisms are everywhere.
Something that might happen when you light a match is fire.
hats can't fly.
People bathe in water.
sleeping is for dreaming.
Something that might happen when you have a heart attack is take an aspirin.
reading books is a good way to learn and relax.
You are likely to find a bookshop in the mall.
You can use a baking oven to bake bread.
The first thing you do when you listen is stop talking.
a mailbox is a container for letters.
a son can honor his mother.
Something that might happen when you dive is you get wet.
If you want to program then you should gain access to a computer.
film is a record that can be played back to show pictures.
The last thing you do when you propose to a woman is put a ring on her finger.
Something you need to do before you play baseball is join a baseball team.
The last thing you do when you read a book is close it.
A shed is a place to store lawn equipment.
Something you find on a desktop is a calculator.
Something you need to do before you enjoy a film is rent a video.
Something that might happen while skiing is an accident.
a council is used for decision making.
If you want to pray then you should get down on your knees.
a person doesn't want to be dead.
You are likely to find a sheet of paper in a box.
Something that might happen as a consequence of doing some exercises is sore muscles.
You would go on a vacation because you need to relax.
You would get paid because you want compensation for efforts.
You would read because you want to be entertained.
Astronomers can study stars.
Something that might happen as a consequence of doing a crossword puzzle is feeling a sense of accomplishment.
Hair is only on mammals.
You would play football because you want some exercise.
doing housework requires having a home.
Something that might happen when you go public is making a lot of money.
boots are a type of shoe.
Children go to summer camp.
Hawaii is a place to vacation.
The first thing you do when you bring suit is contact a lawyer.
A plunger is used to fix toilet cloggings.
A wife can surprise her husband.
Something you might do while exercising is get fit.
You are likely to find a control room in a nuclear power plant.
If you want to play lacrosse then you should learn the rules of the game.
You are not likely to find a guitar in an orchestra.
You are likely to find a potato in New Hampshire.
upcoming exams would make you want to memorize.
You are likely to find a rosebush in France.
seeing people play a game is for having fun.
Something that might happen as a consequence of finding information is understanding something.
Something that might happen when you eat in a restaurant is drinking wine.
Something you find at a bookstore is a shelf.
The effect of eating is gaining energy.
A feijoa is a small green fruit.
a chef can cook dishes.
the eight ball is black.
a person wants to own unique things.
You are likely to find insects on or in a tree.
boredom would make you want to surf the web.
a scale is used to measure the weight of an object.
no money would make you want to apply for a job.
fish are generally aquatic.
The first thing you do when you paint a house is buy some paint.
If you want to play chess then you should have a chess board.
staying fit requires eating healthy food.
ambiguity is created by stupidity.
Rocks can break windows.
Apples are edible.
The last thing you do when you skateboard is fall off.
latte is made of milk and coffee.
a wedding ring is used for symbolizing marriage.
coins can be made of silver.
Something that might happen while passing your university exams is forgetting.
You are not likely to find a monkey in the brain.
You are likely to find a mini bar in a hotel room.
kids learn at schools.
a bird can lay an egg.
You are likely to find a chess set in a cupboard.
You would change your appearance because you are ugly.
Something that might happen while entertaining people is laughter.
You are likely to find corruption in any large organization.
You are likely to find a spirit in the bar.
Sometimes gaining more land causes you to become wealthier.
Schools have classrooms.
Victims are part of life.
You are likely to find a fox in a fox hunt. 
If you want to go to an opera then you should go to the opera house.
Sometimes playing hockey causes injuries.
a cat doesn't want to be wet.
You are likely to find a rubber in a bedside table.
If you want to see a band then you should Go to the club.
You would ski because you want to have fun.
a piano is used for making sounds.
The first thing you do when you chew your food is bite it.
Somewhere sand can be is in an hourglass.
Nevada is part of the United States of America.
English is a Germanic language.
The effect of taking the car for a drive is having fun.
a person doesn't want a house fire.
Sometimes having an epileptic fit causes embarrassment. 
An oboe is not a kind of piano.
Something you might do while jumping out of a window is fall to the ground.
buying presents for others is for birthdays.
Something you find in a drawer is knickknacks.
You would play lacrosse because you want to have fun.
You are likely to find a display cabinet in the living room.
Sometimes taking a walk causes you to get some fresh air.
a bugle is for making music.
a curling iron is used for curling straight hair.
A clock can continue ticking.
trees can produce fruit.
A fraction is a part of a whole.
Something you find in a waste bin is junk mail.
movies are for watching.
Sugar comes from sugar cane.
Emus are a flightless bird.
If you want to play soccer then you should join a soccer team.
The gear works of a mechanical clock are a complicated feat of miniature engineering.
Something you might do while communicating is speak.
Families are wonderful inventions of society.
Something you find on the surface of the earth is evidence of meteor hits.
Something you find on the roof is snow.
You can use a muscle to lift things.
Something you find at a toy store is talking dolls.
Coal is black.
Something you might do while posting a message is typing.
South America is part of Earth.
Something you find on the table is a place setting.
Something that might happen while releasing your energy is you become tired.
a car can move a person.
One of the things you do when you wash your hands is put soap on.
If you want to sew then you should hold a needle.
birds are very beautiful creatures.
Something you find at work is an office.
a robot is a worker.
You are likely to find a sculpting gel in a bathroom.
If you want to paint a house then you should buy a paint brush.
infants are babies.
The Washington Monument is an obelisk.
a Japanese restaurant serves Japanese food.
You would do the housework because company is coming.
Rain jacket is a kind of jacket to prevent people from getting wet.
a mini bar is for beer.
You are likely to find a pill in a pharmacy.
Something you find in beer is alcohol.
going to work is for accomplishing.
walking the dog requires going outside.
boredom would make you want to watch a television show.
Something you find at a roadblock is construction workers.
sending a criminal to prison is for protecting society.
You can use a bowl to hold soup.
Something you find at a concert is T-shirts.
Something that might happen while changing society is riots.
telephones can hang on walls.
You are likely to find a place in any location.
a person wants the answers to the universe.
You are likely to find a balcony seat in a balcony.
Caffeine can keep you awake.
A toaster can brown toast.
getting onto the web is for doing research.
You are likely to find eyeglasses in their case.
having lots of drinks would make you want to urinate.
Something that might happen when you sleigh ride is you get cold.
Something that might happen as a consequence of watching TV is wasting time.
If you want to find the truth then you should read the bible.
land is for farming.
An activity a salesman can do is sell.
You are likely to find a pencil in a desk drawer.
You can use a movie to learn.
a hunter can corner his prey.
If you want to play a game of chess then you should find someone to play with.
You are likely to find an orchestra pit in a theater.
Something you might do while reaching an impasse is pray.
You are likely to find a violin in a violin case.
Something that might happen as a consequence of attending a classical concert is happiness.
The last thing you do when you go to work is clock in.
Something you find in the air is carbon dioxide.
Sometimes swimming causes cramps.
Sometimes cleaning causes neatness.
The effect of playing football is exhilaration.
an apple is used for making apple pie.
Basketball is a very fun game.
Something that might happen while taking a walk is seeing the neighbors.
Mazda is a corporation.
a bay is for sailing.
birds make nests.
Something that might happen while driving a car is honking a horn.
Something that might happen as a consequence of earning a living is getting a paycheck.
Something you find in the countryside is farm animals.
restaurants often sell lunch.
Something you find at a hockey game is fights.
skiing is for sport.
people can shoulder burdens.
If you want to view a film at home then you should rent the movie.
Something you might do while using a computer is page down.
a pouch is used for holding something.
a ring is for wearing.
finishing your drink would make you want to set a cup on the table.
a person wants nice clothes.
a canvas is used for covering something.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing is winning.
Plants do not have blood.
A game is probably fun.
An activity a sheep can do is graze.
a fluoride toothpaste is for cleaning your teeth.
human languages differ from each other.
a machine gun is for shooting.
You can use a card case to carry business cards.
Something you find in a forest is a branch.
You are likely to find an electronics store in a strip mall.
Fruits can be sour.
golfing is expensive.
a boat is for floating.
Something you find in a pocket is spare change.
Something you find at a school is janitors.
New Caledonia is an island.
running twenty six miles requires endurance.
Folk is a type of music.
The last thing you do when you eat ice cream is wash the bowl.
You can use a sofa bed to have guests.
rubber chickens are toys.
Something that might happen as a consequence of eating a hamburger is you get fat.
One of the things you do when you watch television is change channels.
You are likely to find an oboe in a music store.
You are likely to find an office building in a city.
Something you find on the surface of the earth is people.
a bathroom usually has a toilet.
Something that might happen as a consequence of enjoying a film is laughter.
You are likely to find an arcade in a city.
a computer is used for accessing the Internet. 
Something that might happen when you take the stand is giving evidence.
You can use a study to study.
You would sit on a chair because you are tired.
meeting a friend is for reminiscing.
A radiator cools the engine.
You are likely to find a beaver in Oklahoma.
Something you find at a restaurant is a fork.
Black holes twist trajectories and warp light.
predators can kill their prey.
You are likely to find a garden hose in a garden shed.
everyone wants to be happy.
a ball is for bearings.
You are likely to find a potato in the store.
Something you find at a fast-food restaurant is grease.
Something you need to do before you read a magazine is get a magazine.
Something you might do while going for a run is checking your pulse.
Something you need to do before you read a book is get one.
mountain lions are a kind of large cat.
Ecology is the study of the viability of life systems.
people eat cake.
everything can be learned.
You can use a knife to cut meat with.
The first thing you do when you pay cash is find your wallet.
a oboe is a woodwind instrument.
wolves howl at the moon.
Music is often broadcast by radio.
Something you find at a swimming pool is people.
visiting a museum is for education.
Scales are used to compare weight.
a person wants a loving partner.
a plane is used for travel.
diving is for recreation.
Somewhere a carton of milk can be is in a refrigerator.
Sometimes writing causes revolutions.
You are likely to find a lizard in a lizard cage.
If you want to have a bath then you should fill the bathtub.
a person wants a chance to be creative.
a lawyer can rest his case.
Los Angeles is a city in California.
Hummingbirds drink the nectar of flowers.
Something you find on the subway is subway trains.
You would dance because you are happy.
If you want to wash clothes then you should gather them up.
a person wants a good car.
You can use a portable shower head to take a shower.
Sometimes dying causes promises to be broken.
a front yard is used for growing a garden.
Sometimes serving customers causes you to earn money.
You are likely to find a stall in a public bathroom.
trees can not walk.
fighting war is for killing.
Sometimes learning about science causes you to become educated.
You are likely to find a cottage in forests.
Gods have the manners and morals of a spoiled child.
breakfast is the first meal of the day.
You are likely to find a tapestry in a museum.
You can use a prosthesis to replace a lost limb.
children can need care.
printing on the printer requires loading scratch paper.
The first thing you do when you have a heart attack is panic.
The effect of eating a cookie is crumbs.
New age music combines many sounds.
If you want to get onto the web then you should buy a computer.
drinking requires something to drink.
following a recipe is for cooks.
a bat is for beating someone up.
answering questions requires thought.
Kids like to have fun.
If you want to paint a picture then you should get out your paints.
Something you might do while going fishing is bring a fishing pole.
One way to scope out information is with an otoscope.
Something you might do while going to the pub is buying a beer.
Bookcases hold books.
You would tell many people about something because it is important.
One of the things you do when you take an exam is answer exam questions.
getting a divorce requires a lawyer.
Parks are normally in cities.
Sometimes knitting causes afghans. 
lighting a match requires air.
being in charge of a project requires organizational skills.
Sometimes chewing your food causes tooth pain.
Reports is the plural of report.
You would jump at the chance because you want better conditions.
Some people do not have a home.
Sometimes scoring a homer causes cheering.
a front yard is for Sitting In.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing hockey is you win a face off. 
Green plants have chlorophyll.
Sometimes climbing causes blisters.
a hockey puck is used for passing.
An activity a writer can do is write a book.
a person wants to be famous.
Something you find in a pantry is bread.
a person doesn't want to be dumb.
reaching a tentative agreement requires a little compromise.
attending school is for gaining knowledge.
Sometimes drilling a hole causes a leak.
Something you need to do before you get wet is remove your clothes.
You are likely to find a Chinese restaurant in china.
You are likely to find an apple tree in an grove.
Something you might do while diving is be careful.
The effect of procreating is having progeny.
Sometimes analyzing something causes new information to be discovered.
If you want to sleigh ride then you should be in a sleigh.
Sometimes scoring a home run causes you to win.
You are likely to find a walk in closet in a mansion.
being part of a family would make you want to earn a living.
One of the things you do when you maintain muscle strength is exercise regularly.
a cold storage is for keeping food from spoiling.
Something that might happen while doing the housework is you dust the cobwebs.
tickling is for fun.
Sometimes meeting people causes a personality clash.
A fisherman can fish for trout.
Something you might do while memorizing is think hard.
The effect of going to a baseball game is enjoyment.
Something that might happen when you sell your new book is people read it.
A worker can bank his paycheck.
Something you might do while going to an opera is bring glasses.
relaxing requires comfort.
Food cans are made of metal.
You are likely to find a crab in the bottom of the ocean.
Something that might happen when you maintain muscle strength is you run.
You would eat ice cream because you want to cool down.
Sometimes passing a class causes shock and dismay.
Shore flies are annoying.
A ship has a bow and a stern.
Something you might do while driving to work is sing.
You would eat in a fast food restaurant because you want to eat quickly.
Species adapt.
If you want to drink alcohol then you should go to a bar.
a churchyard is for graves.
If you want to maintain good health then you should exercise regularly.
Something that might happen when you get a contract is you take on debt.
people can demand justice.
Something that might happen as a consequence of opening a business is you sell pretty things.
Something that might happen as a consequence of getting wet is catching a cold.
The effect of riding a bike is enjoyment.
Sometimes smoking causes bad breath.
being orderly would make you want to get in line.
singing requires talent and courage.
a person doesn't want to be under pressure.
You would go to a party because you want to have fun with friends.
Thor was the Norse Thunder god.
Something you find at a sporting event is a player.
playing a harp requires fingers.
a person can enter a house.
Sometimes taking a walk causes weight loss.
The effect of printing on the printer is a hard copy.
You would breathe some fresh air because you want to feel good.
Something you find in a park is people walking dogs.
The effect of going to school is learning new things.
Depression is depressing.
Sometimes writing a poem causes girly feelings.
You are likely to find a classroom chair in school.
going to another place in the same city cheaply requires planning.
Something you find at the gym is a rowing machine.
Something that might happen when you clean your clothes is you find money in the pockets.
curiosity would make you want to find information.
Something that might happen when you eat a hamburger is you use ketchup.
You would go to a movie because you want to see the film.
Sometimes chatting with friends causes misunderstanding.
Something you find at a swimming pool is bubbles.
Something you find in the refrigerator is pie.
Something you might find in a freezer is chicken.
Something you find in the refrigerator is orange juice.
Something you might do while playing basketball is sweat.
a foot is for running.
You would add up a column of numbers because you need to know the sum.
Sometimes answering questions causes sadness.
a calculator can divide numbers.
Sometimes eating a hamburger causes energy.
The first thing you do when you go see a film is buy a ticket.
Something that might happen while serving customers is you get a tip.
Something you find in a forest is poison ivy.
Something you find on the subway is a ticket booth.
You would create something to help other people because you want to improve the world.
You would score a home run because you want to try to win the game.
Something you might do while seeing your favorite show is eat candy.
Iceland is a country.
children would make you want to view a video.
The first thing you do when you eat an apple is wash it.
The effect of using a television is visual.
You are likely to find a heifer in a herd of cows.
You would eat lunch because you want to feel good.
You can use a piece of information to make a decision.
You would comfort a friend because you want their money.
people in China talk Chinese.
Using a computer sometimes causes carpal tunnel syndrome.
a laundry room is used for cleaning clothes.
You would use a VCR because you want to see a tape.
Something that might happen when you sleep is you sweat.
If you want to ride a horse then you should have a horse.
a moving sidewalk is used for transportation.
You are likely to find wool in a sweater.
taking care of proposals requires concentration and patience.
Aluminum is easily recycled.
Something that might happen when you do housework is you sweat.
An atom is very small.
a dancer dances.
Something that might happen while bringing home some fish is you have fun.
an effort can amount to nothing.
Kings and Queens wear crowns.
Something you might do while beginning work is getting coffee.
You can use a sheet of paper to add numbers.
Something you find at a friend's house is a video game.
stairs are used for going into the attic.
diving is for fun.
You can use a tuba to play in a band.
a person wants children.
getting a job is for work.
One of the things you do when you mail a letter is put it in an envelope.
a cornet is used for playing music.
hunger would make you want to buy food.
a bag can carry groceries in it.
a flute is not a kind of piano.
a steakhouse is used for dinner.
a bus seat is used for sitting.
Something you find at a museum is history.
Something that might happen while washing your clothes is you find money in a pocket.
You are likely to find a fortune in a bank.
You can use a tapestry to decorate a wall.
MySQL is a kind of database.
The last thing you do when you become more clean is dry off.
going on the Internet is for fun.
You are likely to find an apple tree in an apple orchard.
crossing the street requires checking for traffic.
walking around a lake requires a lake.
You can use clippers to trim your hair.
You would score a homer because you want your team to win.
You are likely to find a runway in a city.
awaking is for starting the day.
You are likely to find a shopping arcade in a town.
Something you find in a jar is applesauce.
A beach is made of sand.
If you want to go on the stage then you should have a talent.
You are likely to find a shark in an ocean of the world.
a grocery store is used for distribution of food.
No two people have the exact same fingerprints.
If you want to drive to work then you should get a job.
You would get drunk because you want to forget something.
Poland is a country.
Deer have four legs.
A word is part of language.
You are likely to find a weasel in a cage.
You would see art because you want to be enlightened.
Something that might happen when you help someone is you feel good.
Something you might do while finding the truth is research.
A chess player can position pieces.
sleighing is for Christmas. 
The last thing you do when you swim is dry off.
You are likely to find a box office in a theater.
You are likely to find a crab in a trap.
Seat belts can save lives.
You are likely to find a salon in a mall.
You are likely to find a locker room in a health club.
making a patchwork quilt is for warmth.
Most people can smell flowers.
Something you find at the movies is a chair.
Palm trees grow in hot climates.
man can drive a car.
Some birds glide.
Some salesmen have good manners.
If you want to sew then you should use a needle.
A generic drug is a chemical copy of a brand name drug.
You are likely to find a heat source in a house.
reading is for pleasure.
a lawn is an area of grass.
books contain paper pages.
The effect of proving your physical endurance is tiredness.
Bats can fly.
Soda is sticky.
Something that might happen while sending a criminal to prison is an escape.
Something that might happen while starting a fire is a burn.
a concert hall is used for performances.
A walnut is a kind of nut.
a footstool is used for elevating your feet.
Sometimes washing clothes causes them to wear out.
Something you find at a beach is a cold drink.
Earth is part of the universe.
You can use a basket of laundry to store dirty clothes.
You are likely to find a map in a glove box. 
getting a job is for paying bills.
a person can mail a letter to another person.
Landlords can let property.
If you want to clean the house then you should hire a maid.
Something that might happen while tying your shoelace is you fall over.
The last thing you do when you read a newspaper is fold it back up.
Something you might do while getting wet is showering.
You are likely to find a subway station in new York. 
Something that might happen when you perform is applause.
Something that might happen when you cook dinner is the food burns.
chlorophyll makes plants green.
thanking someone is for expressing gratitude.
Something that might happen when you add up a column of numbers is you make a mistake.
thread is used for sewing.
doing a crossword puzzle is for having fun.
Something you find at the end of a line is the last person.
cats kill mice.
If you want to view a film at home then you should have a film projector and a screen.
Wine can age over time.
moving a car requires driving it.
If you want to remember something then you should repeat it.
A molecule of water has two atoms of hydrogen and one atom of oxygen.
Sometimes attending a classical concert causes drowsiness.
feathers are found on birds.
an automobile has four tires.
You are likely to find a heater in a car.
A travel agent can book a flight.
people can share food.
a person wants to be treated fairly.
If you want to walk around a lake then you should have legs.
Vinyl is a type of plastic.
You would buy a beer because you want to drink.
The first thing you do when you remember something is think about it for a while.
If you want to pay cash then you should take out your wallet.
Something you find in a suitcase is toiletries.
You are likely to find a fox in a fox's den.
summer is a season.
going to sleep is for Letting the body recover.
You are likely to find a snake in creeks.
Something you find on the windowsill is paint.
sail boats need wind to move.
You are likely to find a swamp in Louisiana.
Something that might happen while seeing people play a game is cheer for them.
a Cocker Spaniel is a type of dog.
Paranoia is the fear of something.
A funny joke would make you want to laugh at a joke.
You are likely to find an aircraft roadway in an airfield.
A Buick is a brand of car.
adding up numbers is for getting the total.
You are likely to find a queen in a bee hive.
Trees grow from seeds.
walking in the rain requires rain.
You are likely to find water in beer.
San Francisco is a liberal city.
The last thing you do when you join the army is regret.
having a party is for drinking alcohol.
If you want to go for a drive then you should put the key in the ignition.
If you want to buy a house then you should get a mortgage.
You are likely to find a necklace in a jewelry box.
You are likely to find a double edged razor in a bathroom.
You are likely to find a shower curtain in a shower stall.
Sometimes going to a Laundromat causes clothes to get clean.
listening is for learning something.
Something that might happen as a consequence of communicating is the transfer of information.
Something you find at the beach is water.
Plants use tannins as defensive chemicals.
You are likely to find a gift in a store.
watching TV requires a TV. 
Something you find at a hotel is soap.
Some wrenches are adjustable.
A person can further a cause.
a person doesn't want to be deaf.
If you want to wait on tables then you should be a waitress.
You are likely to find a flat in a city.
Sometimes doing a crossword puzzle causes a headache.
Something you find under a desk is a foot.
Something you find under water is salt.
A container can be made of tin.
The effect of sewing is mending cloth.
Some sports are violent.
Something that might happen while selling your new book is signing autographs.
Sometimes attending a lecture causes you to gain knowledge.
Knives can be used to hurt people.
a person doesn't want to be hit.
going somewhere requires transporting.
the earth travels around the sun in one year.
The lawyer can object to a question.
a painter can coat a house with paint.
Christmas is a Christian holiday.
Something that might happen as a consequence of hearing testimony is a verdict.
all people drink.
The kidneys are organs in the body.
Polo is played on horseback.
Something that might happen while debating politics is raised voices.
You are likely to find a barbershop in a mall.
You are likely to find a grape in a grapevine.
You are likely to find an anemone in a book.
a match can burn paper.
You can use a club to play golf.
gloves fit on hands.
You are likely to find an electric pencil sharpener in a class room.
If you want to program then you should like to solve problems.
Sometimes celebrating causes joy.
You would hear testimony because you are a juror.
Salt is a spice that consists of a single molecule.
Something you might do while using a computer is make drawings.
lighting a fire is for signaling for help.
Somewhere a fridge can be is in a kitchen.
The first thing you do when you have a conversation is listen.
A pig is a mammal.
You are likely to find a gel toothpaste in a tube.
Something you find in the newspaper is an article.
a pit is used for burying something in.
Sometimes reading a newspaper causes you to appreciate life.
Something you find in a car is a map.
Every person has a heart.
You are likely to find a calendar book in a briefcase.
becoming inebriated is for forgetting things.
You are likely to find a superhighway in the city.
If you want to wait for someone then you should wait.
You are likely to find a front courtyard in front of a house.
If you want to have lunch then you should stop working.
You are likely to find an underground map in a library.
Paint can contain lead.
a knife is a useful tool used to cut things.
If you want to maintain good health then you should eat healthy foods.
Smoking is bad for your lungs.
Something that might happen when you use a VCR is you see a recorded movie.
If you want to have a shower then you should use soap.
Something that might happen when you advance into battle is to be afraid.
You are likely to find a shower head in a shower stall.
having a shower is for cleanliness.
If you want to release your energy then you should scream.
a person doesn't want to choke.
If you want to buy a hamburger then you should go to McDonald's.
You would attend school because you want knowledge.
a house is for sleeping.
a large city shopping mall is used for shopping.
helping someone is for feeling good.
A robber can stick up a bank.
a kitchen table is used for eating breakfast.
a hot dog is a type of food.
Something you find on a freeway is a vehicle.
Something you find in space is nebula.
The last thing you do when you read to your children is close the book.
You can use a doormat to wipe your shoes.
hearing music requires ears.
Love can last a life time.
a church is used for weddings.
Something that might happen while soaking in a hot spring is relaxed muscles.
Something you find in a building is carpet.
If you want to go to the pub then you should bring money.
People are biased.
You are likely to find a person in a house.
Something you find on television is advertisements.
If you want to have a bath then you should go to the bathroom.
Something that might happen when you ski is breaking a bone.
Sometimes calculating things quickly causes you to make a mistake.
a person wants global freedom.
wood can be used for flooring.
Launch pads are made of concrete.
Meditation is a method for relaxation.
taking a shower is for getting clean.
You are likely to find a mini mall in a suburb.
Hunger would make you want to cook a meal.
making it grow is for gardens.
freeways are usually made of concrete.
Sometimes judging someone causes their feelings to be hurt.
Something that might happen as a consequence of joining the army is fighting in a war.
War is evil.
Gasoline is a refined hydrocarbon mixture commonly used to fuel internal combustion engines.
Spinach is a food edible by humans.
writing a story is for fun.
Something you find on the floor is cat hair.
a bill is for requesting payment.
stamping things saves time.
A medal is usually awarded for achievements.
Books contain many words.
Somewhere a pool can be is in the backyard.
Beer is golden and delicious.
a person wants others to be content.
If you want to forgive someone then you should let go of the hurt.
a trumpet is for playing music.
safety devices are used on water craft.
going for a walk is for fun.
learning about the world is for students.
You would play cards because you want to win money.
ducks live in water.
If you want to fight the enemy then you should get a weapon.
Sometimes playing baseball causes a home run.
A beach has lots of sand.
One of the things you do when you program is write strings of code.
The effect of playing a harp is producing music.
conquering your opponent requires beating them.
Coins are used to buy.
families live together.
Bark is part of the tree.
A lens is used to magnify something.
a person doesn't want nosy neighbors.
good manners are an important part of good behavior.
You can use a shore to swim.
If you want to fight war then you should get a weapon.
An activity a student can do is homework.
Something you find at a restaurant is a menu.
a bookshop is for Buying books in.
The constitution bans government promotion of religion.
You are likely to find a tape dispenser in an office.
Kissing is a sign of love.
Something you find at home is a refrigerator.
Sometimes applying for a job causes anxiety and fear.
Kids love to play.
climbing a mountain is for The thrill of it.
a board game is for A source of relaxation.
proposing to a woman requires guts.
You are likely to find a ring binder in a school.
yo-yos can be all different colors.
You are likely to find a nerve in a brain.
Talk is cheap.
If you want to change society then you should start with yourself.
playing cards is for playing poker.
You are likely to find a bee in the air.
feeding your family requires money to buy food.
Water is a fluid.
a door with a lock is for Security.
Potatoes are food.
If you want to pay by credit card then you should have good credit.
air contains oxygen.
If you want to express yourself then you should speak clearly.
Grapefruits are a sort of fruit.
If you want to rest then you should sit down.
You are likely to find a room study in school.
Kissing someone is usually pleasant.
Pansy is an annual plant.
You are likely to find a fox in a story.
a person wants a hug.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to a sporting event is you stay out late.
a lie is false.
love would make you want to lie.
If you want to read a newspaper then you should open your eyes.
You are likely to find a courthouse in the center of town.
a poster is for decorating your room.
The last thing you do when you live your life is die.
rubber duckies are fun in the bathtub.
joining the army requires signing up.
a bass clarinet is used for music making.
a lock is for protecting.
You are likely to find a blowfish in a sushi restaurant.
giving a gift requires no reason.
running in a marathon is for health.
Something you find at a demonstration is a table.
Something you find at a shop is merchandise.
You are likely to find a comb in a bathroom.
The last thing you do when you buy presents is give them.
Something you find at work is people.
You are likely to find a grape in the produce department.
playing cards is for gambling.
the hunter can fire the rifle.
Something you find in the street is lost money.
You are likely to find a human in the bathroom.
a rod is used to catch fish.
telling many people about something is for spreading rumors.
An Oldsmobile is a type of a car.
Something you find on the table is an apple.
You would determine the truth because you want to know.
Something you find in class is an instructor.
Something you find at an apartment is a door.
Sometimes playing games causes competitiveness.
a platform is for standing on.
Something you need to do before you ride a bicycle is own a bicycle.
people like to eat together.
You would buy a shirt because it looks good on you.
You can use a comb to arrange hair.
You are likely to find a weasel in a hen house.
junk mail is annoying.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in a kennel.
If you want to make bread then you should use yeast.
You are likely to find a fox in Alaska.
You are likely to find a potato in a food store. 
You are likely to find a tuning fork in a music shop.
a paper is used for many purposes.
You would walk because you want to move to another location.
watching a movie requires time.
washing your clothes is for getting them clean.
If you want to strike a match then you should get some matches.
You would take a shower because you want to wash your hair.
windowpanes are made of glass.
humans make music.
Something you find in a magazine is an advertisement.
roots grow in the ground.
Something you find under the bed is toys.
People can enter data.
a grocer is for selling groceries.
a person wants to understand the events of history.
people can use tools.
A cook can cook food.
Something you might do while typing is make a mistake.
visiting other countries is for travel.
high schools often have drama departments.
Something you find on the rug is a sleeping cat.
Sometimes playing a game causes defeat of your opponent.
Something you find at a rest area is snacks.
Something you find on the table is a patient.
Sometimes getting wet causes you to become cold.
Something you find in your mouth is taste buds.
America is a republic.
Walking changes your location.
Something that might happen while skating is you fall on your head.
You are likely to find a heater in a cold room.
sugar is a sweet food.
eating breakfast is for starting your day.
Something that might happen when you view a film at home is you make popcorn to share with your family.
Most men do not wear dresses.
You are likely to find a main entrance in a theater.
You would attend a rock concert because you want to hear music.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying presents is you think of others.
Some actors appear in movies.
Something that might happen while writing a story is you get other ideas.
gaining more land is for getting rich.
A doctor can set a broken bone.
PHP can connect to databases.
A carpenter can read a blueprint to understand a floor plan. 
Something you find on the rug is a crumb.
You are likely to find an ottoman in a furniture store.
The last thing you do when you clean your clothes is hang them in the closet.
a card is for a birthday.
getting exercise is for having fun.
Sometimes doing some exercises causes breathlessness.
You are likely to find a card slot in an ATM Machine.
talking requires being alive.
A mask is used to hide your identity.
clean water is a necessity we all take for granted.
staying fit is for good health.
watching television requires you to be awake.
Sometimes watching TV causes laziness.
You are likely to find a checkbook holder in a purse.
a team can lose to another team.
running a marathon is for endurance.
Tourists can view scenery.
If you want to have lunch then you should buy food.
An activity a bride can do is plan a wedding.
sending e-mail is for fun.
You would advance into battle because you want to fight.
Something that might happen while discovering the truth is surprise.
silver is a type of metal.
a plaintiff can settle her case.
taxes must be paid.
Something you find at the doctor is a stethoscope.
You are likely to find a tractor on a farm.
A nail can cause a puncture wound.
an apprentice can master a skill.
You would eat an apple because you were hungry.
Mammals need sleep.
You are likely to find a lizard in a creek.
Sometimes flirting causes anger.
Something that might happen while having a physical exam is having to cough.
a person doesn't want to get divorced.
The effect of seeing your idea become reality is satisfaction.
penguins would make you want to go to the zoo.
Something that might happen as a consequence of typing is carpel tunnel syndrome.
You are likely to find vinyl in pants.
metal is opaque.
analyzing something requires caring.
a bookend is used to keep books from falling over.
Worlds exist.
A trial would make you want to impanel a jury.
Something you might do while communicating is yell.
A baseball can be hit by a bat.
a person wants a fast car.
Cruelty is bad.
Something that might happen as a consequence of hearing testimony is you form an opinion.
Something you find in the corner is a shelf.
A surgeon performs operations.
Something that might happen when you meet people is a handshake.
The effect of going to the hairdresser is better looking hair.
a person doesn't want broken bones.
The statement "An activity someone can do is write a poem." is true because Writing is an activity.
If you want to watch television then you should turn it on.
Something that might happen as a consequence of enjoying the day is you go to the park with the dog.
setting a cup on the table requires a coaster.
a clamp binder is used for holding something in place.
Something you find in a backpack is food.
You would paint a picture because you want to relax.
A Dalmatian is a kind of dog.
You are likely to find a grape in a fruit stand.
You would dive because you want to get in the water.
playing with the dog would make you want to run after the ball.
Unicycles have one wheel.
The effect of going to an opera is hearing music.
Something you find on a desk is a speaker.
a person can hear music.
People often eat their food off a plate.
a person doesn't want to be jailed.
Something you find at the gym is a weight bench.
You can use a computer user to use a computer.
Buttons are used to fasten pants.
war and violence are bad things.
land is for building on.
You would go to the hairdresser because you want a new hair color.
If you want to punch someone then you should form your hand to a fist.
Something you find in a hospital is sick people.
You are likely to find a hair clip in a beauty salon.
Something that might happen when you have a party is the dog bites someone.
A carpenter can side a house.
Hurting yourself is bad.
You can use a bridge arch to cross a river.
A house is a subset of building.
animals have feelings too.
You can use a pad to crash.
Something you find at a movie is movie star.
Sometimes testing the car causes you to reject it.
a bird can fly high.
checking vital signs is for emergencies.
a coach airplane seat is for sitting on an airplane.
Water flows downward.
a person doesn't want to be injured.
Encyclopedias come in many volumes.
You would stand up because you want to talk to a group.
a desire to save money would make you want to go to another place in the same city cheaply.
Something you find under the closet is a foundation.
a garden is for relaxation.
angry bees would make you want to run twenty-six miles.
A game of backgammon.
a scooter is a kind of vehicle.
You can use a row house to live in the city.
going fishing requires access to water.
Something you find in New Jersey is people..
people can talk to other people.
concern would make you want to talk to someone.
Something that might happen while attending a classical concert is hearing beautiful music.
The art is in the detail.
Pajamas are for sleeping in.
Something that might happen while using a television is you become bored.
a baking oven is for baking.
Something you find in New Jersey is Atlantic City.
a foot is at the end of a leg.
Something that might happen when you go public is you whine.
a person doesn't want athlete's foot.
bowls are used to put soup in.
You would see your favorite show because you want to see it often.
You would go for a run because you want to get fit.
Sometimes proving your physical endurance causes you to compete.
One of the things you do when you jog is run.
Australian baby boomers have an appalling savings record.
Neptune is the eighth planet from the sun.
All living things need water.
doing the housework is for keeping the house in order.
You are likely to find a first class airline seat in a jet.
six flags is an amusement park.
People eat chicken.
a person wants to travel.
You are likely to find a merchant in the mall.
You would buy products because you want to have convenience.
a tennis ball is for bouncing.
an alarm clock would make you want to get up early.
An animal doesn't want pain.
a person wants cheese.
Pouring milk into a glass is an activity before drinking.
You would wash your hands because you want to kill germs.
You would play sports because you want to be part of a team.
The effect of having an asthma attack is bad.
The first thing you do when you rest is sit down.
Something you might do while socializing is talk.
a road is a surface.
Something you find in a bar is vodka.
Something that might happen while shouting at the top of your voice is you make a lot of noise.
a verb is for expressing action.
An activity life forms can do is reproduce.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going fishing is you have to dig worms.
The selective perception of cues is an essential element in serial motor skills.
You are likely to find an apple tree in Wisconsin.
If you want to eat in a fast food restaurant then you should go to a fast food restaurant.
baking a custard pie would make you want to follow a recipe.
Something you find in a bedroom is comfortable pillows.
a ticket booth sells tickets.
Horseshoes protect horses' hooves.
a sugar is used for sweetening coffee.
You are likely to find farmland in the country.
food is generally not sweet.
Something you find at a hockey game is a goaltender.
Sometimes having a checkup causes anxiety.
a scale is used for weighing items.
Something you find on a pizza is pepperoni.
You can use a pedestal to put a statue on.
You would pay by check because you want the convenience.
Something you find at a restaurant is a hamburger.
watching a TV show requires electricity.
You would listen because you want to learn.
Something that might happen when you enjoy the day is you plant flowers.
Something you find at the gym is a muscle builder.
Black Sabbath is a band.
Something you find at a fork in the road is two roads.
You would go for a run because you want to try out your new shoes.
a person wants mankind to explore the universe.
Something you find in the fridge is fungus.
The last thing you do when you read the news is recycle the paper.
Something you find in a backpack is flashlights.
The first thing you do when you institute a civil action is call a lawyer.
If you want to act in a play then you should audition for a part.
Something you find on the windowsill is a potted flower.
The effect of surfing is exercising.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in a sweater.
Something that might happen as a consequence of howling with laughter is tears.
You are likely to find a doorway in a house.
Something you might do while leaving the line is whistle.
Hard work would make you want to rest.
You can use a dressing room to get dressed.
a person doesn't want to be lost.
Something you find at a war is wounds.
You are likely to find a hot tap in the sink.
The effect of lying is distrust.
Something you find in a jewelry box is earrings.
The effect of going public is telling all.
Something you might do while painting a house is stand on a ladder.
Something you find on a shelf is a vase.
You are likely to find corn in a supermarket.
Something that might happen as a consequence of committing suicide is you stun your family.
Censorship is bad.
Africa is a big country.
You are likely to find a sculpting gel in a hair salon.
You would pay the bills because you want a clean credit record.
a computer is a useful piece of equipment.
a pill is for medicine.
poor vision would make you want to take an examination.
You are likely to find a mouse in an office.
France is a declared nuclear-weapon State.
You are likely to find a small dog in a small apartment.
Something that might happen while reading the news is fear.
a person wants experience.
CBS is a television network that many people watch.
horses are a type of animal that appears to experience love.
your husband would make you want to watch a TV show.
going to a restaurant requires ordering a meal.
An IRA account is a place to save money for retirement.
One of the things you do when you enjoy the company of your friends is smile.
sweating would make you want to get clean.
a person doesn't want to be fooled.
Clinical depression is a medical illness.
sitting quietly is for being in church.
Hangers are sometimes made of wood.
Cameras take photographs.
Rubella is a common childhood disease.
a hot day would make you want to eat ice cream.
Sometimes going for a walk causes confusion in Alzheimer's patients.
a person doesn't want to be shot.
One kind of musical instrument is a hurdy-gurdy.
The grass is ready for planting.
having money and a need would make you want to buy products.
Something you find at a wedding is a best man.
Canned tuna is an inexpensive fish product.
You are likely to find stairs in a house.
Something that might happen while having a checkup is they find a problem.
rugs cover floors.
A dartboard is a object that you throw darts at.
You are likely to find a lake in Michigan.
You would study for a subject because you want to pass.
a piano has black and white keys.
Pi is a mathematical concept.
Something you might do while determining the truth is ask a question.
Bauxite is an aluminum ore.
A ranch is a place that may have many different types of farm animals.
understanding would make you want to agree with someone.
You are likely to find a marmot in a hole in the ground.
Star Trek is a popular TV show that people like to watch.
Thunder is the sound of lightning.
Something you might do while reading the news is shake your head.
Sunsets and sunrises are meditative.
a person doesn't want to be different.
Something you find at a synagogue is god.
You would eat lunch because you want to have energy.
a projectile is for throwing.
Strength is a mechanical property.
a person wants to have a safe home.
an umbrella is used for shelter from rain.
a person doesn't want to be oppressed.
A diamond is a 10 on the Mohs Scale of Hardness.
Sometimes playing basketball causes pain.
a garment bag is for protecting a garment.
A model is a simplified form.
a person wants to develop her talents.
The effect of going to a Laundromat is clean towels.
taking a midterm is for measuring knowledge of a subject.
A government doesn't want a revolution.
getting a job is for earning money.
Something that might happen as a consequence of becoming inebriated is you fall down.
Mount Everest is the highest mountain in the World.
a study is a room in a person's house.
A chess board contains different colored squares.
You would live a life because you want to have fun.
cars are opaque.
Dry storage is a place where you store items which you don't want to get wet.
If you want to learn about science then you should study.
The effect of taking final exams is passing.
plants contain the green pigment chlorophyll.
a globe is a spherical map of the earth.
If you want to clean the house then you should get the broom.
Something that might happen when you hear the news is you get scared.
Coffee keeps you up at night.
If you want to have a physical examination then you should have medical insurance.
cooking requires ingredients.
You can use a museum to store artifacts.
tortillas are the substrate for a taco.
An activity someone can do is answer questions.
If you want to tell many people about something then you should send an email.
diving is for entering water.
The Chariot is the archetype of spirit below.
car is another word for automobile.
If you want to study then you should open a book.
Something that might happen while working is you pay attention.
a television is for watching.
the smell of pie would make you want to eat pie.
You are likely to find a shark in the ocean waters.
climbing a mountain is for physical challenges.
Space stations orbit the earth.
Something you might do while taking an exam is thinking.
Something that might happen as a consequence of gaining more land is higher taxes.
cats were worshiped as gods in ancient Egypt. 
Walking is an aerobic activity.
If you want to play a harp then you should use your fingers.
the forest is beautiful.
people win trophies. 
You would please your parents because you want their approval.
You are likely to find a hot faucet in the bathroom.
You can use a satchel bag to carry items.
smoking is horribly addictive.
A set is made of members.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in the presidential seal.
surprising someone is for fun.
An alcoholic can bottom out.
You are likely to find tea in a pantry.
You are likely to find a beaver in Oregon.
You can use a Mexican restaurant to eat tacos.
If you want to talk to someone then you should call them.
a person wants intellectual challenge.
Something that might happen when you kiss someone is they kiss you back.
a cash token is used for paying.
You are likely to find a pencil sharpener in the desk drawer.
an eye is not a kind of activity.
The last thing you do when you have a heart attack is die.
You can use a transit ticket to travel.
Something you find at a zoo is a zoo keeper.
If you want to enjoy a film then you should go to the movies.
playing poker is for fun.
Children play with games to have fun.
You are likely to find a crab in a crab pot.
If you want to start a family then you should marry.
Some people drink their coffee black.
A man can touch a woman.
dogs are generally animals.
You are likely to find a piano in the concert hall.
Flamingo is a bird.
plants decorate a garden.
You are likely to find functions in PHP.
Baby birds come from eggs.
Something you find in the Arctic is the arctic fox.
Babies don't have much hair.
You are likely to find a home in a neighborhood.
You can use a boat to cross water.
Something that might happen as a consequence of celebrating is party.
a person doesn't want to wake up early.
Commercial glass is created by melting silica with various additives.
wood can be cut.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to sleep is snoring.
If you want to play Frisbee then you should buy a Frisbee. 
bees sting.
Something that might happen when you go on strike is the public does not help you.
a person doesn't want a fly in the soup.
A square is a rectangle.
Something you find at the airport is helicopters.
kissing is for pleasure.
a person doesn't want to be arrested.
democrats are left-wing.
One of the things you do when you engineer is brainstorm.
A queen is royalty.
You are likely to find a brick row house in the city.
A mirror shows your reflection.
studying for a subject requires an interest in the subject.
stethoscopes are usually cold.
serving justice requires police.
Romania is a country.
You can use a passenger ticket to board a plane.
You would clean your room because it was dirty.
maps are used to find locations of things.
a person doesn't want to be overweight.
going jogging is for exercise. 
Something you might do while taking an oath is swearing to tell the truth.
If you want to buy presents for others then you should earn money.
swimming is for moving in the water.
Something you find on the windowsill is a flower.
flags represent countries.
You are likely to find a cold tap in a kitchen.
The self is an illusion.
Something you find at the gym is a weight lifter.
Vietnam is a country.
people can ride on the backs of horses.
a person wants to win.
people sell items in a market.
a bureau is used for storing clothes.
Something you find in the water is germs.
a shoe can fit a foot.
Something you find at a wedding is a guest.
watching TV is for wasting time.
a sweater and a shoe are both articles of clothing.
ducks are waterproof.
Something you find in a container is milk.
If you want to obstruct justice then you should commit a crime.
Deuterium and tritium are hydrogen isotopes.
a brownstone is a type of house.
Something that might happen as a consequence of fiddling is square dancing.
People can relax by watching television.
A person can surprise another person.
Penguins are flightless arctic birds.
You are likely to find a scene in a play.
an eye is for viewing.
people swim in a swimming pool.
tickets are made of paper.
The capital city of Iowa is Des Moines.
meeting people is for making new friends.
a mini bar is for drinking.
One of the things you do when you go to the beach is swim.
You can use a finger to dial a phone number.
soldiers can battle in war.
Something you find in the oven is a casserole.
Beer should be served cool.
Sometimes buying food causes you to write a check.
You can use a basketball to play basketball.
Something you might find in a valley is a town.
a piccolo is not a kind of piano.
standing in line is for waiting your turn.
Something you find at a concert is performers.
Something you might do while running twenty six miles is sweat.
Something you find at a funeral is a corpse.
a person doesn't want to go bankrupt.
a handgun is used for shooting bullets.
People are often lazy.
You are likely to find a poem in a book.
Something you find at the gym is rope.
Sometimes playing soccer causes knee injuries.
You would use a VCR because you want to watch a movie.
You can use a hotel to rest.
driving requires a vehicle.
Something that might happen as a consequence of drilling a hole is sawdust.
Sometimes spending money causes poverty.
Something you find on the porch is a dog.
signing a contract requires a pen.
Somewhere a ship can be is in a port.
planes are for flying.
going to the mall is for spending money.
watching football would make you want to play football.
Something you need to do before you buy a hamburger is be hungry.
Fire causes burns.
The effect of getting drunk is intoxication.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying a shirt is owning a shirt.
running errands requires time.
If you want to jump at the chance then you should hurry to do something.
You can use fabric to make curtains.
eating in a restaurant requires money.
democracy is a kind of government.
One of the things you do when you have food is EAT FOOD.
the day is bright.
an accordion is a type of instrument.
The effect of having a physical exam is anxiety.
You can use a front room to have a party.
You would play basketball because you want to have fun.
You are likely to find a fastener binder in an office.
St Johns is in Canada.
a person doesn't want to gain weight.
George Washington was a president.
sitting quietly is for reflection.
a person doesn't want a wound.
an air ticket is used for traveling.
You are likely to find a bay window in a living room.
getting in shape is for your own good health.
designing software is for solving problems.
Adults can count.
Something you find in a newspaper is information.
Something you find in a meadow is field mice.
If you want to mail a letter then you should put it in an envelope.
having food is for storage.
a person wants adoration.
If you want to watch the evening news then you should switch the TV on.
All rabbits are herbivores.
a shareholder is used for investing in a company.
Something you find at work is a time clock. 
You are likely to find a bird in a cage.
Many people enjoy listening to music.
Something you need to do before you go for a drive is get out the keys.
People can listen to songs.
Something that might happen when you play Frisbee is jumping.
Sometimes creating an idea causes a revolution.
clippers clip things.
Something you find under a desk is a foot rest.
a person doesn't want to be taken for granted.
If you want to surprise someone then you should not tell your plans to them.
Basketball games have high scores.
The effect of talking is communication.
One of the things you do when you go on the Internet is surf the web.
a motorway is a place to drive a car, or automobile.
One of the things you do when you go into a coma is sleep.
AIML is a method of programming response-based artificial intelligence.
One of the things you do when you see an exciting story is read it.
English is a type of class taken by students.
A laser can be used for surgery.
acting in a play requires learning the lines in the play.
Something you find at a swimming pool is chlorinated water.
A Labradoodle is a cross between a Labrador and a Poodle.
You are likely to find a yard in a neighborhood.
Dissolved oxygen is a natural decomposition product of H2O2.
Somewhere a black hole can be is at the center of a galaxy.
a plank can bridge a gap.
You would leave the line because you want to do something else.
Michael Jordan is a well known player in the game of basketball.
If you want to write a story then you should use your imagination.
Celcast Pty Limited is an Australian owned company.
AIMS is an acronym for Automated Instrumentation and Monitoring System.
a human can talk to a human.
A system is an organized method.
Something you find at the theater is a play.
American science writing is a flourishing art.
You are likely to find a large container in the kitchen.
loneliness would make you want to meet a friend.
The first thing you do when you go to a restaurant is open the door.
A laser is amped light.
If you want to improve your image then you should be nicer.
Voting is an activity that people do.
Something you find under the bed is a magazine.
Snow pony is a little-known British pop band.
A trombone is a musical instrument. 
A trombone is larger than most other musical instruments.
Choking is a reflex stimulated by irritating nerves inside the throat.
Something you find in the attic is antiques.
A quart is a unit of measure in the English measurement system.
Something that might happen as a consequence of teaching other people is that the other people learn something.
Something that might happen while fixing a computer is short circuiting.
You can use a utility case to carry your stuff.
Asparagus is a kind of vegetable.
A hardware store sells tools.
A dining room is a place to eat a meal.
Something you find at a waterfall is beauty.
Pure water is a good electrical insulator.
You would earn a living because you want to be independent.
A hyperbola is a conic section.
playing hockey is for Sport.
a dish could be broken.
a cashier can thank a customer.
Ray tracing is a crude approximation of the path that light travels.
a boulevard is used for travel.
Japan is an archipelago with four major and many minor islands.
The first thing you do when you bathe is get naked.
Mind is part of Human.
You are likely to find a freeway in America.
Nolan Ryan is a famous pitcher.
You are likely to find a weapon in a police station.
Something you find on the rug is dirt.
remembering a phone number is for keeping in touch.
towels can be folded.
Dogs love trucks.
The effect of driving a car is arriving at your destination.
Pirates can board a ship.
Espresso is a strong coffee brewed by forcing steam under pressure through darkly roasted, powdered coffee beans.
You can use a golf club to play golf.
The first thing you do when you make tea is boil water.
a person doesn't want to go into debt.
Something that might happen while going to a party is meeting people.
You would move a car because it is in the way.
You would consume because you want to have.
having lunch requires food.
eye is a kind of body part.
attending school requires patience.
a person wants clean air.
Biscuits and gravy tend to be a bit high in fat.
Sometimes seeing old things causes reminiscing.
leather is for making shoes.
The effect of carpooling is reducing air pollution. 
If you want to go into a trance then you should hypnotize yourself.
Hot air balloons fly.
You are likely to find a marmoset in a cage.
Sometimes running causes injuries.
American express is the name of a credit card company.
Something you need to do before you perform is practice.
going to market is for buying bread.
Something you find in a plane is a steward.
Something that might happen as a consequence of attending a rock concert is deafness.
washing your hands is for cleaning your hands.
Something you find at a movie is snacks.
The effect of drinking alcohol is getting drunk.
Sometimes selling your new book causes receiving money.
You are likely to find a queen in a beehive.
a school cafeteria is for eating.
If you want to kill someone then you should change your mind.
the mayor can present an award.
People are strange.
Something you find in a casino is roulettes.
A person can guess an answer.
having a conversation is for exchanging ideas.
taking an exam is for passing the class.
You can use a night table to hold a lamp.
You are likely to find an orchestra seat in an auditorium.
cats can need food.
Something you might do while skating is get cold.
You are likely to find an electric fan in a hot room.
giving a clue is for helping.
getting up early is for starting off fast.
The effect of performing is entertaining.
You are likely to find crossroads in the countryside.
people sit on bar stools.
boredom would make you want to go to a sporting event.
Something you find in a field is a weed.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in Hawaii.
Something that might happen while hearing testimony is you take notes.
a dog is mans best friend.
doing a crossword puzzle requires thinking.
If you want to wash your clothes then you should use soap.
Something you might do while surfing is standing on a surf board.
Something you find on a table is a computer monitor.
You are likely to find a fungus in a fallen tree.
You can use a try to attempt something.
You are likely to find a large container in a warehouse.
You can use a telephone book to look up a number.
contemplating is for thinkers.
You would view a video because you want to be entertained.
a person doesn't want to burp in public.
You are likely to find a cardboard box in the trash.
You are likely to find a story in a building.
You would light a match because you want to make fire.
memory is a kind of fidelity.
Something you find in a field is rocks.
Something you find at church is mind control.
Something that might happen when you add up numbers is a mistake.
Something you find in the sky is hot air balloons.
wanting to get on the Internet would make you want to use a computer.
a tub is used for taking a bubble bath.
playing football is for fame.
You can use a hide-a-bed to sleep a guest.
Something you find at an airport is a coffee shop.
Knives are used to cut vegetables.
You can use a stairway to get to heaven.
You are likely to find a ring in your jewelry box.
Something you find in a box is toys.
a basement is for storage.
Some fences are made of wood.
You would pass a class because you want to graduate school.
a fan is used for cooling the air.
Something you might do while buying a shirt is try on the shirt.
If you want to get wet then you should take a shower.
If you want to use a VCR then you should read the manual.
a linen closet is used for keeping towels.
Sometimes contemplating causes action.
walking around a lake is for having fun.
starting a fire is for toasting marshmallows.
ducks live near water.
A man can need a woman.
The last thing you do when you take a shower is turn off the water.
The effect of killing people is death.
If you want to have a bath then you should have soap.
Something you find on the windowsill is a dead fly.
The effect of going to market is buying food.
You are likely to find the United States on a map.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to an opera is sleep.
Somewhere a horse can be is in Mongolia.
the USA is not a democracy.
You are likely to find a faucet overflow in a sink.
people cannot breathe underwater.
an elephant has a trunk.
A ribbon is usually one color.
Somewhere a mirror can be is on the wall.
Something you find in the corner is walls.
Flags need wind to stay aloft.
You are likely to find a fungus in a mushroom pizza.
Something you find at a water fountain is people.
Towels can dry your body.
Something you might do while playing chess is capture a knight.
Something you need to do before you watch a TV show is buy a TV. 
If you want to cool off then you should go swimming.
Something that might happen when you hear the news is you are shocked.
Something you find in a quandary is people.
a program can contain bugs.
People don't want to be dirty.
You are likely to find a cavity in your teeth.
If you want to cash in then you should go to the cashier.
a person wants wisdom.
You are likely to find a grocery store in a town.
a doormat is for Keeping the house clean.
You are likely to find a moistener in hand lotion.
You would ride a bicycle because you want exercise.
A good example of a body disorder is a toothache.
an auditorium is used for lectures.
Something that might happen while destroying your enemy is you feel bad.
a bookstore is for browsing through books.
a broken thing can sometimes be repaired.
Something that might happen as a consequence of purchasing a cellular phone is having to pay a lot of money.
people can iron clothing.
You are likely to find a society in any group of people.
milk contains water.
You are likely to find an organ in the human body.
a tile is used for playing scrabble.
If you want to play the violin then you should have a violin.
an entranceway is for entering a place.
Something that might happen when you go to bed is you go to sleep.
Something that might happen when you receive a degree is you get a new job.
Competing for resources wastes time and energy.
You are likely to find a mouse in a pet store.
Trees can branch out.
skirts can be worn.
You can receive news through the media.
An agoraphobic can fear open spaces.
You would climb a mountain because you like outdoor exercise.
Cappuccino is a kind of drink.
liking fish would make you want to become a scuba diver.
You can use a cash token to pay for the subway.
You are likely to find a potato in a casserole.
Sometimes having an examination causes stress.
A man can listen to a woman.
Something you find at a rest area is a bench.
Something that might happen when you score a homer is a celebration.
Brainstorming can mine ideas from a group.
Something you need to do before you have a party is make a guest list.
You are likely to find a sound control room in a music studio.
Flies reproduce through eggs.
you are likely to find an oven in Maine. 
learning about science is for understanding the universe.
a person can open doors.
whales are large marine mammals.
an animal wants to reproduce.
Students have to go to class.
If you want to comfort a friend then you should be friendly.
If you want to take a shower then you should get naked.
Something that might happen as a consequence of flying a plane is crashing.
People wear layers of clothes.
You would jump rope because you want to play.
Sometimes repairing an umbrella causes frustration.
If you want to see a particular program then you should switch to its channel.
a checkbook is used for writing checks.
One of the things you do when you go to a baseball game is cheer.
still water reflects images.
You are likely to find a committee in government.
Something you find at the top of a mountain is thin air.
If you want to release your energy then you should have energy.
The passenger train revolutionized land travel.
accidents can happen to anyone.
calculating things quickly requires skills.
You are likely to find a baggage trunk in a car.
A knight is part of a chess set.
a car can need petrol.
Something you might do while committing to memory is concentrating.
You would entertain people because you want to have fun.
needing food would make you want to go to market.
The last thing you do when you grow vegetables is remove them from the ground.
You are likely to find an exam table in a classroom.
The last thing you do when you play hockey is leave the ice.
a person can meet their friends.
A choir uses a chord.
You are likely to find a beaver in books.
preparing for a vote requires researching the candidates.
A train can arrive on schedule.
seeing your idea become reality is for inventors.
You are likely to find a grape in shops.
a beach towel is for drying yourself.
You are likely to find a canoe in water.
If you want to apply for a job then you should fill out an application.
a book is for storing knowledge.
You are likely to find a correction fluid in a desk drawer.
predators can corner prey.
Something you need to do before you convict a suspect for a crime is arrest him.
A row is a fight.
Something you find in the attic is a rafter.
Something you might do while planning a vacation is look at a map.
Riding a bike can be good exercise.
If you want to see art then you should visit an art gallery.
A station wagon is a family car.
You are likely to find a salad spinner in the cupboard.
Something you find in a breadbox is a bagel.
a Frisbee is for having fun.
Something you need to do before you run is stretch.
Something you might do while teaching other people is Talk.
Something that might happen as a consequence of using a calculator is getting a result.
The sea is filled with water.
If you want to exercise then you should make some time.
Something you find at an art show is objects of art.
Cameras are used to take photographs.
jumping at the chance requires opportunity.
A string can be used to fly a kite.
Something you find at a sporting event is hot dogs.
An airplane is a large machine with wings.
If you want to listen to the radio then you should buy a radio.
You can use a forklift to raise heavy items.
Something that might happen while celebrating is drinking.
Something that might happen when you eat a hamburger is getting fat.
One of the things you do when you buy a house is go into debt.
A sword is a weapon of war.
People can jump.
looking through a telescope is for looking at the stars.
You are likely to find a stick eraser in a school.
If you want to wash your hands then you should use water.
Something you find at a car show is pollution.
You can use jeans to display your shapely physique.
You can use a garden hose to water the flowers.
Somewhere a balloon can be is in the air.
Something that might happen when you exercise is sore muscles.
a person doesn't want to be a victim of a crime.
One great advantage of humans over computers is adaptability.
Night follows day.
The effect of growing vegetables is having vegetables.
a motel is for resting.
viewing a video is for educating.
plates are sometimes made of glass.
Something you find at Disneyland is tourists.
a person wants intelligent children.
an opal is a precious stone.
a rifle is used for target practice.
You would serve customers because you want their money.
a checkbook holder is used for holding checks.
a banjo is not a kind of piano.
You are likely to find a coin purse in your purse.
a shop is used for selling goods.
fixing a computer is for making it work.
The cat is a wild animal that inhabits the homes of humans.
You are likely to find a bus pass in a bus station.
You are likely to find a pool in the back yard.
Canberra is the capital of Australia.
reading a newspaper is for learning.
The first thing you do when you get some money from someone is count the money.
If you want to study then you should open your textbooks.
Submarines are underwater vehicles.
a salesman can trade a car.
diving requires swimming skill.
Something you find on the subway is people without cars.
Dream amnesia is the norm.
a cook can prepare dinner.
If you want to wait in line then you should go to Disney world. 
People have two legs.
One of the things you do when you fish is put a worm on a hook.
previews would make you want to watch a film.
Muppets are puppets.
vacuums clean floors.
You are likely to find a briefcase in an office building.
Something you find at the farmer's market is collard greens.
If you want to examine a thing then you should use a magnifying glass.
If you want to meet a friend then you should call her.
A person has a name.
Tobacco is a kind of drug.
Compact Discs are round.
You are likely to find a subway platform in New York.
Sometimes taking a walk causes you to calm down.
Presidents are elected.
Something that might happen while visiting an art gallery is viewing paintings.
Something you find in a person is a heart.
You are likely to find a paper punch in an office.
Something that might happen while getting a good grade is being happy.
Liquid oxygen is extremely cold.
Sometimes going to a baseball game causes excitement. 
A monocle is an eye glass for one eye.
The last thing you do when you pass your university exams is graduate.
You are likely to find a post office in the center of a town.
a bat can strike a ball.
If you want to join the Army then you should talk to an Army Recruiter.
curiosity would make you want to read a book.
Something you find at a Internet cafe is a computer with a connection to the Internet. 
attending a meeting is for making decisions.
People can enjoy themselves.
You are likely to find a fungus in warm moist places.
A radiator may be part of a car.
Sometimes scoring a homer causes your team to win.
Something you find on a freeway is signs.
A clock is used to indicate the time.
Sometimes improving yourself causes more self confidence.
If you want to attend a lecture then you should go to class.
a student can fail an exam.
the Phillies are a team that has many fans.
You can use a ranch house to sleep.
People can follow other people.
a bullet is for wounding someone.
A star is a burning ball of gas.
Bob Dylan is a famous singer.
Something that might happen while meeting girls is you get nervous.
creativity would make you want to create art.
If you want to wash your hands then you should use soap and water.
Wood is solid.
a classroom is used for education.
bread is for baking.
Some statements are generic.
people sometimes lie.
Something you might do while playing basketball is foul out.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing football is you get hurt.
You are likely to find a fluoride toothpaste in a tube.
You are likely to find a human in a bathtub.
Something you need to do before you score a homer is swing the bat.
A dancer can cut a rug.
Something you need to do before you pretend is have a good imagination.
You would see artifacts because you want to learn about cultures.
Something that might happen as a consequence of meeting girls is love.
You can use a kitchen to cook.
a person doesn't want HIV.
Something you might do while going for a run is run.
A curtain covers a window.
a fast food restaurant is for eating out.
cats can corner mice.
You are likely to find a grape in a lunch box.
water flows down river.
a yo-yo is for doing tricks.
a person wants freedom of speech.
The need for a place of worship would make you want to build a cathedral.
Something you need to do before you take a shower is take off your watch.
a person wants a lot of fun.
something that might happen as a consequence of riding a horse is falling off the horse.
receiving a degree is for students.
Something you find on the fridge is a report card.
Star is a kind of fusion reaction.
riding a horse is for having fun.
You are likely to find a drill in the garage.
You can use a container drum to store liquids.
surfing requires waves.
You are likely to find a drug in a pharmacy.
A mayor can govern a city.
You would go to another place in the same city cheaply because you get the same thing for less cost.
You would run in a marathon because you like to run.
Something you might do while burying the cat is put it in a box.
Something you find on the shelf is dishes.
Typewrites have many keys.
If you want to teach other people then you should become a teacher.
a pub is for drinking alcohol.
Something you need to do before you fiddle is tune the violin.
Something you find at the farmer's market is peppers.
You can use a window curtain to block out light.
If you want to grow vegetables then you should plant an organic garden.
Banks have insurance.
Sometimes going for a walk causes tiredness.
Something that might happen while meeting girls is a blush.
Music makes the world go round.
The stamp has a black handle.
Something that might happen while eating breakfast is having a cup of coffee.
Children can thank their parents.
People can agree.
Something you might do while cooking is boil rice.
singing requires a good voice.
maintaining muscle strength is for good health.
The effect of going to a baseball game is boredom.
Something you find in a suitcase is ties.
Something you find in the backseat of a car is a child seat. 
The effect of doing housework is everything is clean.
playing baseball is for sport.
a bus station is for travelers. 
Something you find at a park is a child.
Something you find atop the refrigerator is a cookbook.
an airplane is used for transport.
Garbage can be recycled.
You are likely to find a bus coin slot in the front of a bus.
If you want to drive a car then you should have a license.
Sometimes walking around a lake causes you to notice wild flowers.
water is a solvent.
Something that might happen when you meet people is you become friends.
Sometimes having an examination causes anxiety.
You are likely to find backpacks in a school.
Traveling between countries requires a passport.
One of the things you do when you strike a match is start a fire.
Something you need to do before you go to the hairdresser is take a shower.
requirements would make you want to learn about a subject.
Something you find on a pizza is cheese.
A woman can choose a man.
a lens is for focusing light.
You can use a sheet of paper to make a paper airplane.
Something that might happen while wrestling is getting hurt.
Something that might happen as a consequence of attending school is you graduate.
If you want to get a job then you should fill out an application.
Sometimes jogging causes knee pain.
You are likely to find salt in the ocean water.
You would have a shower because you want to feel clean.
If you want to remember a phone number then you should write it on your hand.
Something you find at a drive-in movie is the movie screen.
Something you find at a gallery opening is free food.
Sometimes giving a clue causes good guesses.
You are likely to find an entryway in a hotel.
seeing a band is for Being entertained.
Sometimes seeing a movie causes anger.
A man sings into a microphone.
a book is used for learning about all religions.
glue can stick to you.
a calculator can be used to add numbers.
Something that might happen when you create something to help other people is feeling good.
the glamour and high wages would make you want to work the box office.
Sometimes bathing causes nudity.
If you want to communicate then you should listen.
A wardrobe is for keeping clothes.
You would have a physical examination because you want a new job.
Something you need to do before you look through a telescope is adjust focus.
You are likely to find wood in a fireplace.
a captain is for being an army company commander.
changing your appearance is for fooling people.
A day is 24 hours long.
Styles change over time.
You can use books to press flowers.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to market is you buy bananas.
Love would make you want to live.
false charges would make you want to find information.
Dynamite is a powerful explosive.
Clouds can rain raindrops.
There are three feet in a yard.
Something you might do while going for a haircut is take a shower.
You can use a pond to fish.
A chow is a breed of dog.
determining the truth requires investigation of the facts.
Sometimes reaching an impasse causes conflict.
stopping your bicycle is for safety.
Something that might happen while paying cash is you receive change.
reproducing requires fertility.
fencing is for privacy.
pills would make you want to sleep.
A cat can look at a king.
Something that might happen while going to a movie is you take your seat.
The medical field of study for an oncologist is tumors.
You would sit on a chair because you want to rest your feet.
Something you find in the jar is runner bean chutney.
handling proposals is for lawyers.
You are likely to find a gallery in a museum.
Something you might do while going to get a haircut is bring a photo with you.
paying by check requires a pen.
Something you might do while going to a play is sit in a seat.
Something you find on a desktop is a blotter.
You would apply for a job because you want to earn money for your bills.
Something you find at a state park is monuments.
spouses can break up.
the way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
Something you might do while eating a hamburger is drip ketchup.
Something you find in the space shuttle is wires.
Sometimes getting in line causes agitation.
You can use a health food store to buy vitamins.
going to a performance requires free time.
Something you find on a desk is a box of Kleenex. 
skating requires coordination.
Something you might do while listening is focus.
Something you might do while enjoying the company of your friends is party.
waking up in the morning requires going to sleep at night.
The medical field of study for a virologist is viruses.
Something you find in the fridge is frozen foods.
Something you find on the ground is snow.
dreaming is for fun.
You can use energetic music to relax your mind.
You are likely to find a monument in a large city.
A knife is a tool with a sharp edge to cut things.
creating an idea is for an artist.
a carpenter can nail a board.
Something you might do while cleaning is wash windows.
attending school requires tuition.
Sometimes procreating causes twins.
One of the things you do when you go to work is drive.
Something you might do while chatting with friends is tell secrets.
taking a bath requires time.
The effect of going to the hairdresser is curls.
some chairs are made of metal.
Something you might do while doing the housework is dust the books.
Sometimes having an epileptic fit causes pity.
You would surf the web because you want to see flowers.
some galaxies have a spiral shape.
buildings can weather a storm.
You would go for a run because you want to use your running shoes.
Something you find at the front door is a doorknob.
beauty would make you want to visit an art gallery.
You would program because you want a specialized application.
Something you might do while learning is listen to the teacher.
a person wants to listen to loud music.
Something that might happen as a consequence of watching a film is you remember it.
Something you might do while waiting on line is complain.
the Internet can stream video.
leaving the line requires going away.
Something that might happen while buying products is you get an extended warranty.
You would surf the web because you want to laugh.
Brazil is a country in South America.
You would look through a telescope because you want to discover a UFO. 
You would diminish your own hunger because hunger is uncomfortable.
Something that might happen when you buy fresh fruits and vegetables is you smell them.
Something you find in the water is dissolved minerals.
The effect of remembering is being prepared.
Something you find in the countryside is grass.
Glass gets dirty.
Holland is a country in Europe.
Something that might happen when you buy something for a loved one is you have fun.
Something you might do while falling is get hurt.
Something you find at a neighbor's house is a fish tank.
winter would make you want to play hockey.
equestrian competition would make you want to ride a horse.
A window is used to see outside.
having a party is for entertainment.
Sometimes going to the hairdresser causes frizzies.
Something that might happen as a consequence of working is projects are finished.
You are likely to find a key in a keyhole.
Something you find on the table is a place mat.
needing to know phone numbers would make you want to memorize.
Something that might happen while swimming is drowning.
a person doesn't want loud noise.
a restaurant bill is used for paying for your meal.
You would leap tall buildings at a single bound because you are Superman.
Something you might do while conquering a nation is act cruel You are likely to find a horse in a western movie.
spitting is for baseball players.
serving customers requires attention to detail.
Something that might happen when you conquer your opponent is you feel pride.
You would paint a house because you want to change the color of it.
convicting a suspect for a crime requires proof.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to an opera is you get teased.
men fall down.
If you want to ride a bike then you should get on the bike.
You can use a shopping basket to hold groceries.
a map is for finding an address.
You can use a health food store to buy health foods.
Something you find on a plate is an entrée. 
One of the things you do when you wait for someone is read a newspaper.
You are likely to find a temple in Jerusalem. 
telling many people about something is for gossip.
Weigela is a shrub.
horses run.
Something that might happen when you cash in is happiness.
going on the stage is for performing plays.
You are likely to find a marmot in Colorado.
fighting the enemy requires anger.
a baking oven is used for cooking food.
You are likely to find a merchant in a store.
going to a film is for having fun.
You would drive your car because you want to go to the store for dog food.
a chess knight is used for playing chess games.
going to market is for shopping.
taking a course is for learning new things.
curiosity would make you want to read the news.
Something you find at the doctor is a reflex hammer.
You are likely to find a registry office in an office building.
Something you find in the forest is rain.
Something that might happen as a consequence of typing is pain.
A ferret is an animal.
Something you find at a motel is a phone.
Sometimes cooking causes pride.
Something you find on a table is flowers.
The Ka'ba is a place of worship.
If you want to program then you should know a programming language.
You are likely to find a label maker in an office.
Something you find in the forest is pine needles.
Something you find at a university is buildings.
You are likely to find a track in a coliseum.
reaching an impasse requires stubbornness. 
a person can write a book.
Something you find at a hotel is a bathroom drawer.
a fluoride mouthwash is used for preventing cavities.
Something you might do while washing your car is use a brush.
Oxygen is part of air.
Something you find at a fast-food restaurant is food.
You are likely to find a bookcase in a den.
Something you might do while bathing is read.
Something that might happen when you meet people is exchanging business cards.
Something you find at a demonstration is tear gas.
You can use a post office to receive a letter.
Something that might happen while cooking dinner is you use salt.
a person wants white teeth.
The effect of taking a shower is to become clean.
The last thing you do when you take the car for a drive is park.
Most bedrooms have windows.
The last thing you do when you watch television is turn it off.
If you want to go to work then you should transport yourself.
You can use a party to make friends.
An activity a smoker can do is smoke.
The effect of paying the bills is good credit.
Something you find at a museum is art.
Supermarkets have a large selection of food.
Something that might happen while painting a picture is it changes.
Something you find in a forest is dead leaves.
a person doesn't want a sprained ankle.
One of the things you do when you apply for a job is update your resume.
Something you find on a desk is a desk pad.
rock climbing can be dangerous.
an undertaker can dig a grave.
The effect of doing housework is clean floors.
eating in a restaurant is for being social.
hunger is a sensation.
You are likely to find a ficus in a garden nursery.
a banker is a person.
Horses are fast animals.
wood can be painted.
Something that might happen while emptying your bladder is you miss the toilet bowl.
Something that might happen while having friends over is you have a water balloon fight.
going outside for an evening is for Getting fresh air.
east is to the right of west.
gaining more land is for Growing food.
Sometimes sitting on a chair causes comfort.
Something that might happen as a consequence of fighting war is people are killed.
superman can lift a bus.
spitting requires saliva.
raising cattle would make you want to gain more land.
Something you find on the surface of the moon is dust.
animals can bite.
One of the things you do when you do the housework is cleaning dishes.
injury would make you want to bring suit.
You would sleep at night because you were tired.
You are likely to find a ticket turnstile in the subway.
drinking alcohol is for celebration.
a tile is for a bathroom.
Sometimes playing baseball causes sore muscles.
Something you find under the carpet is hardwood floors.
preparing for a vote requires learning about the issues.
committing to memory requires focused concentration.
You can use a beanbag to play catch.
The oceans are wet.
If you want to meet interesting people then you should join a club.
Something you might do while playing cards is hold them.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in the everglades.
Something you find in a bedroom is a night light.
If you want to play baseball then you should get a glove.
Something you might do while listening is sing.
You are likely to find a changing room in a clothing store.
Something you need to do before you start a family is find a mate.
Something you need to do before you weed the garden is get your tools.
You would go for a drive because you want to take the dog out.
Sometimes satisfying appetites with minimum effort causes hunger.
Your hands can cup my face.
Microsoft is a monopoly.
If you want to learn about a subject then you should go to the library.
hats go on the head.
Something you find on a desk is a mouse pad.
Something you find on the shelf is a teddy bear.
Something you find on the rug is furniture.
You are likely to find a theater wing in a theater.
Something you find on the porch is a mailbox.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking a shower is a towel gets wet.
Something you might do while buying a shirt is spending money.
Black is the opposite of white.
a name is for labeling things.
Something you might do while seeing a particular program is take notes.
Something you find at a military base is a guard dog.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having a haircut is getting shorter hair.
A necklace is a piece of jewelry.
an exhibit would make you want to visit a museum.
a computer is for storing information.
Something that might happen while waiting in line is boredom. 
You are likely to find a cow in Idaho.
If you want to follow a recipe then you should get a cookbook.
You are likely to find a general ledger in a bookkeepers office.
You are likely to find a bass fiddle in a bluegrass band.
a churchyard is for meeting after church.
Something you might do while going to school is drink water.
Something you find at the bottom of the sea is a clam.
a dollar is used for buying something.
People wear rings on their fingers.
Something you might do while diminishing your own hunger is eat pickles.
Something you find in a park is a statue.
You are likely to find a cup in a dishwasher.
You are likely to find a restaurant dining area in a mall.
Something that might happen as a consequence of designing software is you get money.
If you want to serve customers then you should have a good attitude.
You are likely to find an egg in a chicken coop.
Something you find in space is spaceships.
dogs would make you want to play poker.
Soldiers fight wars.
The last thing you do when you play soccer is leave the field.
driving your car requires gasoline.
The effect of handling proposals is eye strain.
You can use a surface to place things on.
If you want to eat lunch then you should cook some food.
A factory makes things.
paying the bills requires a checkbook.
You would take the bus because you don't want to walk.
Something you find in the purse is a lipstick case.
People like to read stories.
Something that might happen while playing a harp is you make a mistake.
anger would make you want to shout at the top of your voice.
Your reading equals your education. .
The last thing you do when you change your appearance is look in a mirror.
Sometimes hearing the news causes grief.
wrestling is for sport.
Something that might happen when you enjoy a film is you tell others about it.
Something that might happen while creating art is pleasure..
Sometimes purchasing a cellular phone causes frustration.
The effect of running out of steam is stopping.
If you want to send e-mail then you should have access to a computer and the Internet You would learn because you want to be smart.
You are likely to find a street in a town.
You are likely to find burlap in sacks.
loving is part of living.
You are likely to find your winter coat in the closet.
Something you might do while getting warm is snuggle.
The first thing you do when you take an examination is get out your pencil.
Something that might happen as a consequence of meeting girls is falling in love.
If you want to go on a vacation then you should take time off work.
Something that might happen while giving a clue is you make it too easy.
Knives can spread butter.
a person doesn't want to be reprimanded.
The effect of recording something is a record.
You would start a family because you want a son.
Something you find at a train station is a ticket taker.
a toilet seat is for sitting on a toilet.
Something you might do while playing chess is capture a rook.
Something you might do while cutting your hair is change your style.
Something you find at the supermarket is veggie dip.
You can use a column to hold up the roof.
Something you need to do before you get to the front of the line is wait in line.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having a bath is relaxing your muscles.
The brain stores memories.
making friends is for being a friend.
The first thing you do when you sleigh ride is get into the sleigh.
The last thing you do when you go to sleep is lose consciousness.
You are likely to find a backyard in a house.
You would visit a museum because you want to learn about history.
metal is a type of music.
the coach would make you want to score a home run.
If you want to go to market then you should get in car.
You are likely to find a beaver in Maine.
Something that might happen as a consequence of opening a bag of chips is eating the chips.
grooming requires a mirror.
Something you find at a sporting event is an athlete.
You are likely to find a crab in a body of water.
A pencil marks paper.
watching a musician perform is for relaxation.
The president can lead the country.
Sometimes running after the ball causes you to fall.
The effect of getting fit is better health.
A liter is a measure of volume in the metric system.
Something you find under the closet is the carpet.
committing to memory requires full concentration.
You can use a shower stall to water plants.
Something you find on the sea is a cruise ship.
A mortar is a weapon.
a person doesn't want a low paying job.
Something you find in jail is a person.
Something you might do while going to see a film is get a coke.
Something that might happen while doing a crossword puzzle is you think about words.
If you want to fight war then you should have weapons.
Something that might happen when you play baseball is hitting the ball.
watching a hockey game would make you want to use a television.
clippers is for clipping.
Sometimes printing on the printer causes you to use paper.
an armchair is used for resting in.
Something that might happen while going to a restaurant is you order an iced tea with lemon.
a driver can be starting a car.
a person doesn't want bad food.
The first thing you do when you bathe is take off your clothes.
You are likely to find a barbecue in the garden.
The first thing you do when you surf the web is turn on your computer.
The effect of living a life is gaining experiences.
If you want to find a lost item then you should detect the clues.
Something that might happen while bringing in a verdict is voting.
Something you might do while paying cash is count your change.
A diamond is the hardest substance on earth.
You are likely to find a grape in a vine of other grapes.
Something that might happen as a consequence of attending a classical concert is hearing classical music.
using a VCR requires A TV.
You would hear the news because it is on the radio.
playing sports is for learning teamwork.
The effect of surprising someone is joy.
Something that might happen while changing society is things go terribly wrong.
a fiddle is for playing music.
pressure would make you want to calculate things quickly.
a leap year has 366 days.
snow is crystallized water.
Something you might do while studying for a subject is fall asleep.
a hair is very thin.
The last thing you do when you go into a trance is close your eyes.
Something you might do while making friends is share experience.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking final exams is graduation.
a person can wave goodbye.
Something you need to do before you speak is think.
Sometimes awaking causes depression.
If you want to do the housework then you should clean up.
You are likely to find a name in a phone book.
If you want to learn about science then you should get a textbook.
Sometimes breathing causes asthma attacks.
If you want to eat breakfast then you should go to the kitchen.
star trek is a pretend story.
Something that might happen when you meet a friend is conversation.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing ball is throwing.
Something you find on a desktop is books.
Sometimes eating a hamburger causes you to gain weight.
diving is for exercise.
good news would make you want to chat with friends.
people sleep in motels.
some fish are striped.
If you want to make a patchwork quilt then you should sew.
You are likely to find a door with a lock in a building.
Steaks can be grilled.
writers can complete novels.
A wedding chapel can be used for a wedding.
going on the stage requires much courage.
The first thing you do when you send e-mail is turn on your computer.
doctors can doctor patients.
dogs are great pets.
Pepsi is a beverage.
Something you find in a drawer is reading glasses.
an eatery is for getting food.
Something you find at a neighbor's house is their sofa.
Sometimes doing housework causes you to get tired.
A plate is an object used as a portable platform for holding food.
Something you find at the market is magazines.
Something you might do while meeting a friend is say hi.
fixing the plumbing would make you want to get clean.
Something you find at a park is green grass.
If you want to read a newspaper then you should buy it.
The effect of buying a beer is losing some money.
Sometimes giving assistance causes better circumstances.
A nail can be hit by a hammer.
The first thing you do when you have a party is invite your guests.
You can use a knife to pare an apple.
feeling pain would make you want to have an examination.
If you want to write a letter then you should pick up a pen.
A closet usually has a door.
Sometimes creating an idea causes genius.
You are likely to find a party in a house.
If you want to go to the pub then you should bring your id.
a violin is for entertaining.
A theater is a building.
a person wants to have friends. 
Something you find at a soccer game is a soccer net.
You are likely to find a trunk in a garage.
People can do bad things to themselves.
Something you find at a water fountain is children.
a thermometer is used for measuring temperature.
a spirit of adventure would make you want to climb a mountain.
a person wants wonderful memories.
a person doesn't want to lose his spouse.
Sometimes passing a course causes celebration.
Something you might do while having a checkup is cough.
If you want to take the bus then you should have a bus pass.
Something you find on the subway is bums.
The Kentucky Derby is a horse race.
One common emotion is anxiousness.
You are likely to find an iron in a house.
You are likely to find an escalator in a shopping mall.
You are likely to find cardboard in a warehouse.
Sometimes playing sport causes anger.
Something you find under the table is crumbs.
The effect of getting wet is cooling off.
If you want to dance the samba then you should take dance lessons.
You can use an electronics store to buy a computer.
You are likely to find a brook in the country.
a jockey can ride a horse.
You are likely to find a village in Africa.
You would fly a kite because you want to delight a child.
Something you find at the farmer's market is booths.
reading requires a book.
Something you find in a box is a CD-ROM.
Sometimes painting a picture causes an ego boost.
People eat very few blue things.
Something you find on a desktop is a calendar.
Something you find on the moon is an American flag.
You can use a plane ticket to go on vacation.
You are likely to find money in a cash register.
the numerate can add numbers.
If you want to spend money then you should go to a store.
You would sit quietly because you want to avoid detection.
If you want to play chess then you should know the rules.
Learning increases your knowledge.
Something you find at the farmer's market is a pumpkin.
Sometimes going on a vacation causes panic.
a roof is used for keeping the rain off.
Something you need to do before you write a story is think of a plot.
You would exercise because you want to loose weight.
ego would make you want to be in charge of a project.
Something you find at the farmer's market is kale.
Something you find at a university is education.
You are likely to find a heifer in a cattle ranch.
a pharmacist can fill a prescription.
You are likely to find a hot faucet in a sink.
a doorway is used for going into a room.
deaf people can hear nothing.
You can use a shirt to cover your torso.
You are likely to find a beaver in the wilderness.
Something you find at the market is tomatoes.
Something you find on the table is office equipment.
Something you need to do before you hear music is turn on the stereo.
You would start a fire because you want to cook some food.
A boat moves on water.
Something that might happen when you play sports is you get more exercise.
Something that might happen while playing soccer is you get hurt.
building a tower out of toy blocks is for children.
a library has lots of books.
Watching to much TV is bad.
Something you might do while sleighing is have fun.
Something you might do while reading the news is open a newspaper.
a person doesn't want guilt.
You are likely to find a plate in a flea market.
giving assistance requires kindness.
hunger would make you want to buy a hamburger.
You would laugh at a joke because you want to have a good time.
Something you find in a casino is a poker table.
Something that might happen as a consequence of maintaining good health is you have fun.
Something you find in the loft is a comfortable couch.
Something you find in the forest is poisonous mushrooms.
You can use a duvet cover to cover a comforter.
You would play a guitar because you want make noise.
You are likely to find a container in kitchens.
a house is used for shelter.
Shades are sunglasses.
People want to know their candidates.
Something you find at a bookstore is a cookbook.
Noses can sense smells.
flags wave.
Something you find on a plate is deviled eggs.
riding a bike is for exercise.
You are likely to find a potato in a potato farm.
lions hunt.
Computer games are fun.
Sometimes fighting inflation causes lower prices on ham.
You are likely to find a kitten in Oklahoma.
advancing into battle is for fighting wars.
You can use a rifle to hunt.
If you want to eat a cookie then you should bake some.
Your liver is part of your body.
a store is used for selling and buying.
an acrylic is for painting with.
ivory comes from the tusks of elephants.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in a Japanese restaurant.
baking a cake is for celebrating a birthday.
walking around a lake is for relaxation.
If you want to have an epileptic fit then you should stop taking meds.
plants release oxygen into the atmosphere.
The last thing you do when you get exercise is take a shower.
Boats float on lakes.
Peacock is a bird.
An actress can star in a movie.
Something you might do while enjoying a film is put your feet up.
If you want to entertain someone then you should tell a joke.
Something that might happen when you take a break is you stop working.
Something you find in a building is an elevator. 
You are likely to find an index card cabinet in a library.
Viruses are almost inconceivably small.
playing soccer is for children.
You are likely to find a human in the solar system.
Something that might happen when you go on a vacation is you stay at a motel.
Something you find in a cabinet is canned goods.
Something that might happen when you surf is drown.
Something you might do while talking is laughing.
hair has roots.
an acoustic guitar is used for folk music.
Something that might happen when you go on a vacation is you spend money.
skating is for enjoyment.
A pitcher is a member of a baseball team, and pitching is the action the pitcher performs.
Adults can drink beer.
Something that might happen when you go on a vacation is you swim.
a bullet is used for a projectile.
If you want to listen to music then you should turn on the radio.
pens are filled with ink.
a teakettle is used for boiling water.
plants produce flowers to attract insects to pollinate it.
spending money is for buying items.
You would swim because it is hot.
Something you find under your bed is dirty socks.
a computer can think.
A pail is a bucket.
Verbena is a plant.
You are likely to find a neighbor in a neighborhood.
The effect of taking care of proposals is working out details.
A yellow ribbon is a symbol of remembrance. 
a paper is for reading the news.
Something that might happen while sitting on a chair is falling off.
lamb is meat.
coffee has caffeine in it.
some glass is translucent.
Something you might do while surprising someone is shouting.
a present is a gift.
travel could be dangerous.
working is hard.
Something you find in a jar is beans.
Something you find at an airport is tickets.
You are likely to find a canoe in a lake.
One of the things you do when you give a plug is mention the product.
Sometimes judging someone causes resentment.
Something you might do while going to a film is sit in a chair.
love is wonderful and frightening.
Calgary is part of Canada.
Something that might happen when you play chess is a middle game.
Something you find at your house is the front door.
the mail man puts mail in the mail box.
Getting onto the web is for talking with friends.
Barking is a kind of sound.
A vehicle cannot feel.
Music is life as sound.
laughing at a joke is for being polite.
You would fall because you want to avoid stepping. 
If you want to take a phone call then you should pick up the receiver.
radios need electricity.
a person wants to take a vacation.
The last thing you do when you go on the Internet is disconnect.
Something you might do while getting to the front of the line is wait your turn.
Something you might do while reading a letter is smile.
Some truths are complex.
If you want to learn about the world then you should visit a library.
You are likely to find a trombone in a band.
brides usually wear white.
You are likely to find a kosher restaurant in New York.
The effect of doing a crossword puzzle is time passes.
You are likely to find a cornet in a band.
a card case is used for keeping cards.
If you want to see a movie then you should go to the theater.
You would commit perjury because you want to protect someone.
Something you find on a desk is a box of tissues.
Something you find on a desk is a roll of tape.
Something you need to do before you have friends over is clean up the apartment.
a sofa hide a bed is for sleeping.
Mammoths are extinct.
An up quark is part of a charmed lambda-plus.
One of the things you do when you smoke is go outside.
Some people are sick.
A travel agent can plan a vacation.
You are likely to find an instrument triangle in an orchestra.
climbing is for exercising.
Birds have hollow bones.
there are 4 oceans on earth.
If you want to howl with laughter then you should hear a good joke.
You would buy products because you want to be in fashion.
a Bottle opener is used for beer.
sitting quietly is for relaxing.
Something you find at the doctor is a white overall.
Something that might happen when you satisfy appetites with minimum effort is laziness.
a room usually has four walls.
Geranium is an annual plant.
Something you find in a breadbox is bread crumbs.
the universe is huge.
Something you might do while having a haircut is look into a mirror.
sod is grass.
You would watch a TV show because you would be entertained.
There are four seasons in the year.
a barber shop is for getting a hair cut.
a terrace railing is for safety.
If you want to determine the truth then you should weigh the evidence.
Something you find in the ocean is crustaceans.
babies are fragile.
playing chess is for being competitive.
gel is sticky.
A rubber duck is a bathtub toy.
You are likely to find a car park in the city.
becoming a scuba diver is for underwater exploration.
Something that might happen as a consequence of staying in bed is being late for work.
If you want to play chess then you should find someone to play with.
Cats are very independent animals.
If you want to do housework then you should vacuum the floor.
going jogging is for losing weight.
love is the single greatest force in the universe.
Somewhere an elephant can be is in Africa.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to work is you earn money.
Some people have favorite colors.
listening is for hearing things.
Women can marry men.
Something you might do while expressing yourself is cry.
taking a break is for rejuvenating. 
marble is a type of stone.
a hairpin is for holding hair up.
You are likely to find a sugar in a sugar bowl.
You are likely to find a human in a zoo.
peppermint is a plant.
French toast is not a kind of a dessert.
a person doesn't want spilled milk.
You are likely to find a hot dog in the supermarket.
a shelf is for holding books.
Something you find at the supermarket is peanut butter.
going outside for an evening is for Enjoying the weather.
a pad is used for writing notes on.
Battles are a part of war.
You are likely to find a front courtyard in a Spanish style home.
Something you might do while opening a business is advertise.
pen cannot be erased.
Sometimes going to a Laundromat causes you to fight over the few dryers there.
an account book is used for keeping track of expenses.
Sometimes going for a walk causes changing locations.
performing requires talent.
a cymbal is for Playing music with.
anyone can believe me.
Something you need to do before you work the box office is smile.
Something you find in a meadow is a tick.
Trains have wheels.
You can use a telephone to call a friend.
Sometimes making a patchwork quilt causes pride.
a raccoon can die under the house.
Doors can be locked.
Something you need to do before you clean your clothes is sort them.
Something you might do while taping a television show is read a book.
Something you might do while sleighing is sing carols.
Still water reflects like a mirror.
Something you might do while buying something is pay for it.
humans have brains.
Something you find in the ocean is an octopus.
Plaid is a pattern.
If you want to get onto the web then you should have a modem.
hats are for warming your head.
Sometimes driving a car causes you to travel.
Something you might do while laughing at a joke is choke.
If you want to enjoy the day then you should have a positive attitude.
One of the things you do when you play chess is move the pieces.
If you want to get exercise then you should ride a bicycle.
Something you find in the attic is junk.
eating in a restaurant is for Socializing. 
Something you find in the kitchen is silverware.
Something that might happen as a consequence of eating vegetables is good health.
A glass half full of water.
a saddle is for riding a donkey.
a person doesn't want to be put in jail.
the flag is a symbol of patriotism.
Something you find on the surface of the earth is sand.
Something you find at a fair is cotton candy.
hunger would make you want to go to a restaurant.
nobody knows everything.
Something that might happen when you have fun is laughter.
a rifle is for shooting deer.
You are likely to find a ferret in a petting zoo.
Fear of failure would make you want to take an exam.
You are likely to find a hairbrush in the bathroom drawer.
If you want to have a haircut then you should make an appointment.
a police officer can book a criminal.
You are likely to find a tuning fork in a music store.
The earth can circle the sun.
Chicago is a city.
A person can gain weight.
a horse is a quadruped.
a microphone boom is for holding a microphone.
doing a crossword puzzle is for learning new words.
You are likely to find a rod in a hardware store.
Somewhere beer can be is in a brewery.
If you want to stop your car then you should step of the brake pedal.
a comedian can laugh at her own jokes.
kiwi is fruit.
You would have a heart attack because your arteries were clogged.
Something you find at a state park is tourists.
You are likely to find a boy in the playground.
If you want to go jogging then you should leave the house.
people need water to survive.
A letter can be put into a letter slot.
Something you find in a classroom is teacher aides.
Sometimes cleaning the house causes sneezing.
Something you find at a bus depot is a bus schedule.
You are likely to find a cow in a dairy barn.
Something you find in an encyclopedia is knowledge.
a person wants equal opportunity.
One of the things you do when you have a physical exam is remove your clothing.
Something that might happen while washing your clothes is removing dirt from them.
You would calculate things quickly because your good at estimating.
Something you might do while playing ball is get hit in the face.
Something you find at the post office is postage stamps.
Something you find on a desktop is an icon.
Something you find at the top of a mountain is the summit.
books are used to store information.
You are likely to find a carry on bag in an airport.
You can use a briefcase to store documents.
Something you find at home is your dog.
the army has tanks.
You are likely to find a bee in the summer.
You are likely to find a heifer in the countryside.
You are likely to find a blowfish in a tank.
You are likely to find a human in motion.
The last thing you do when you go to the store is pay for your purchases.
poverty would make you want to get some money from someone.
Something you might do while catching mumps is get sick.
there are mountains in Colorado.
If you want to socialize then you should go to a party.
You are likely to find a lizard in Mexico.
a person wants a good parking place.
pavement is for walking on.
gasoline can power lawnmowers.
chartreuse is a color.
guns shoot bullets.
You are likely to find a coin in a bank.
You are likely to find a faucet in the kitchen.
You are likely to find a teaspoon in a coffee cup.
Some books are entertaining.
bags are containers.
Something you find in a mirror is a reflection.
Something you find at sea is storms.
A C-clamp is used to hold things together.
Something you need to do before you eat dinner is cook.
You are likely to find a computer user in an office building.
Something that might happen as a consequence of waiting on tables is receiving a tip.
a vessel is for storing liquids.
Chickens hatch from eggs.
You would dream because you are asleep.
a person doesn't want to be naked in public.
Something that might happen while finding a lost item is searching for it.
Microsoft is a computer software company.
A person can miss an appointment.
Apples are juicy.
old technology is annoying.
Something you might do while becoming a scuba diver is learn scuba-diving.
a bicycle storage area is for protecting a bicycle.
Keys open things.
You are likely to find a laundry room in an apartment building.
a haircut can cost twelve dollars.
black and white are opposites.
You are likely to find a radio studio in a city.
Something that might happen as a consequence of getting drunk is violence.
Something that might happen when you eat quickly is getting gas.
You are likely to find a dresser in a home.
good manners can come from a desire to be friendly and helpful.
Toronto is a city.
Something that might happen as a consequence of loving someone else is getting hurt.
the mailman is a person in your neighborhood.
a table is a platform.
Rubber chickens are considered funny.
The effect of sitting on a chair is resting.
Something you find at church is a priest. 
Something you find at home is a stove.
You are likely to find a heifer in Alberta.
A plane can land on a runway.
a window can be opened.
Some pilots are bad.
Something that might happen as a consequence of gaining more land is you have more wealth. 
You would print on the printer because you want a hard copy.
Something that might happen as a consequence of listening to music is hearing music.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in salt water.
Wind moves sailboats.
a cake is for a birthday.
You are likely to find a harp in heaven.
horses cannot talk.
going to an opera is for listening to music.
A mirror is used to see yourself.
Paintings can also be in your house.
Beer is sometimes bitter.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying something is losing money.
Logic is a science.
You are likely to find a heifer in a cattle farm.
You are likely to find an electric blanket in a closet.
Kentucky is a state.
atheists do not believe in God.
Tires have air in them. 
When the tire gets a hole in it, the air goes out and the tire is flat.
a case of beer is used for holding beer.
If you want to take the car for a drive then you should have gas.
studying for a subject is for getting good grades.
You are likely to find a snake in a snake pit.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in an aerie.
having fun is for enjoyment.
a globe is a representation of the planet earth.
Peace is the absence of war.
You are likely to find a temple in China.
Something you find in the summer is sunshine.
being good at something requires skill.
Advertising sells products.
Pens are used to take notes.
A bridge railing prevents people from falling off of the bridge.
horses are beasts of burden.
You are likely to find a beaver in a beaver pond.
Something you need to do before you serve justice is know justice.
Books can be read.
You would find information because you want the details.
Good planning can further a goal.
Glue sticks two things together.
Planets orbit the Sun.
There are lizards on rocks.
a mailbox is used for receiving mail.
Babies are small people.
Something you find in a breadbox is mold.
You are likely to find a ficus in a nursery.
If you want to apply for a job then you should update the resume.
Something you find at the corner of two streets is a stop light.
Something you might do while writing is brainstorm.
Life is fleeting. 
The days race by.
Something you find at the park is a baseball diamond.
a beauty salon is for getting a manicure.
One of the things you do when you see an exciting story is cheer.
Some animals eat plants.
Something you find on the surface of the moon is sunlight.
people relax on couches.
Drinking relieves thirst.
A zoologist is a scientist.
A euphemism is a substitute for a word which is considered rude, or taboo, or unpleasant.
You would go to the zoo because you want to look at animals.
baking a cake requires preheating the oven.
You are likely to find an action figure in a toy box.
Vegetables are part of a healthy diet.
a cigarette contains nicotine.
You are likely to find an expressway in a large city.
blue is a very calming color.
small furry animals are cute.
Yo-yos are fun.
plumbing is the pipes that carry water around a building.
masks hide the face.
If you want to go on strike then you should join a union.
You are likely to find a radio in a boat.
Something that might happen while being in charge of a project is giving orders.
People enjoy celebrations.
a person doesn't want their child to die.
You would write because you want to express yourself.
You would see art because you want to enjoy it.
Something you find on the table is breakfast.
Something that might happen while playing football is a tackle.
You are likely to find a terrace in a building.
You are likely to find a bean in a grocery store.
You are likely to find a cabriolet in a garage.
Something you find at dinner is steak.
bulls can charge at people.
magnifying glasses can start fire.
people love their children.
You are likely to find a person in school.
If you want to talk to someone then you should use your language.
Somewhere carpet can be is in the office.
cows don't eat people.
Something you find at the gym is workout machines.
Something you find in the chemistry lab is a sink.
Something you find in space is a galaxy.
You are likely to find a creature in the zoo.
Something that might happen when you reproduce is you have children.
wizards know secrets about the universe.
meditation is an important aspect of far eastern religions.
The statement "something can be at home" is true because home is a place.
Something you find at a bus depot is a bus driver.
Something that might happen while standing in line is you become impatient.
a chess pawn is for playing chess.
If you want to watch a film then you should go to a theater.
a mother gives birth.
Wattage is voltage multiplied by amperage.
The glass is both half empty and half full.
A son is a male.
ears of corn cannot hear.
seeing old things is for remembering the past.
a movie theater seat is used for sitting in at the movies.
plays bring people together.
Sometimes playing basketball causes knee injury.
sleeping at night is for rest.
words are used to communicate with.
Aluminum can be recycled.
a person wants a purpose.
A mask hides a person's identity.
Something you might do while playing baseball is throw a ball.
Something you find in the backseat of a car is children.
a student can answer a question.
billiards is a game of skill.
Something that might happen when you have an asthma attack is panic.
drinking is for quenching thirst.
a person doesn't want to get killed.
birds hatch from eggs.
Sometimes procreating causes population increase.
cows smell bad.
broken things can still be beautiful.
Metal is a music style.
You are likely to find a feather in a pillow.
You are likely to find an accordion bag in a music store.
Something you find at a zoo is penguins.
a person wants joy.
a paper punch is for making confetti.
a shop is a store.
The first thing you do when you go to work is get in the car.
only humans get married.
riding a bike requires practice.
a pill is used for curing illness.
If you want to use a television then you should find the remote control.
Something you find in the street is a bicycle rider.
an electric razor is for trimming a beard.
Death is the cessation of life.
Sometimes setting a cup on a table causes spillage.
Something you find at the bottom of the sea is sand.
You are likely to find a hole in the wall.
Rowing and walking are two forms of exercise.
You would go to get a haircut because you want to look good.
A plane is a vehicle.
Something that might happen when you create art is enlightenment.
You can use a screwdriver to tighten a screw.
You would stop your bicycle because you want to get off it.
A boat is a form of transportation.
Something you find on a shelf is personal items.
Chad is a country.
If you want to get onto the web then you should use a computer.
A person can sit up.
a game can be played.
A constellation is a group of stars.
There are 1000 years in a millennium. 
flowers would make you want to weed the garden.
You are likely to find a crab in crab bisque.
Water is a molecule.
a file is for storage of information.
Something you find at the doctor is a needle.
The media lies to us.
You are likely to find a horn in an orchestra.
You are likely to find a village in the country.
climbing a mountain is for adventure.
a rhombus is a parallelogram.
airplanes fly.
Something you might do while taking the car for a drive is check the petrol gauge.
books come in many sizes.
A calculator is a machine.
students go to a school to learn.
The last thing you do when you get up early is turn off the alarm clock.
a rug is a floor covering made of woven yarn.
The effect of buying a house is no longer having to pay rent.
herpes is a disease.
Something you find on the lawn is children's playhouses.
One of the things you do when you wait for someone is check yourself in the mirror.
an acorn is an oak seed.
A tank is used for war.
Ambition would make you want to reach an advantage.
Something you find on a pizza is chicken.
Rome is in Italy.
You can use a pit to catch animals.
using a calculator requires pressing buttons.
Choosing a child restraint is a serious business.
The first thing you do when you diminish your own hunger is eat.
a parent can school a child.
Something you find at a fork in the road is two paths.
A bumper is part of a car.
You are likely to find a fungus in soup.
a person doesn't want grief.
Something you might do while running is trip.
Something that might happen while riding a bicycle is getting a flat tire.
The end of the semester would make you want to take final exams.
DNA is nature's way of programming living creatures.
You can use a delicatessen to buy food.
Something you might do while getting some physical activity is smile.
LAN is an acronym for Local Area Network.
Jews can doubt god.
Something you find on your finger is skin.
The first day of the week is Sunday.
Boating is a activity.
Something you need to do before you sleep at night is get into bed.
Something that might happen when you memorize is you recite.
Sunglasses protect your eyes from UV rays.
a pond is a body of water.
Something you find at a train station is ticket counters.
A frog is green.
Boats are cool.
a king is a ruler of a country.
washing clothes requires a washing machine.
being a dog would make you want to run after the ball.
Viruses are things on the edge of life.
Wind Cave is a national park in South Dakota with limestone caverns in Black Hills and buffalo herds.
Something that might happen when you wait for someone is worry.
a person wants to live with respect.
fencing is for sport.
Effort is a joyous activity.
If you want to cash in then you should sell something.
If you want to play a harp then you should pluck the strings.
a hanger may be used to store clothing.
Sulfur is a pale yellow, odorless, brittle solid.
If you want to attend school then you should register for classes.
a watch can time events.
Something you find at a bus stop is a shelter.
Operating a bicycle is a skill that takes practice.
hair is for combing.
A dog is a four-legged mammal of the genus canine.
Catherine Havasi is a human.
Afghanistan is a cricket-playing nation.
hair is for washing.
a ranch is a large piece of land with a house in it.
Some contact lenses can be worn for several weeks.
Sometimes playing causes injuries.
You are likely to find a shelf in a bookcase.
Something you find in space is more space.
You are likely to find aspirin in a medicine cabinet.
Something you find at a friend's house is a TV set.
The effect of acting in a play is entertaining others.
You are likely to find a gerbil in a cage.
an iron is used for hitting a golf ball.
a fitting room is a place for you to try new clothing.
Something you find on a piano is keys.
Antarctica is a land mass covered with ice.
Somewhere a dog can be is on a leash.
a French restaurant is a restaurant that serves French food.
Linen is a cloth.
Slate is another type of hard rock.
Somewhere a dog can be is at the pound.
a wave clip is a small sound file stored on a computer.
Something you find at a roadblock is a policeman.
peanuts are sometimes salted.
Sometimes lighting a fire causes water to get warm.
a rook is a castle shaped piece in the game of chess.
Something you find in the garage is a tool chest.
Uranus is part of our Solar System.
A hose is a solid object.
Dogs are dogs.
a serving trolley is a small movable table on wheels.
A birthday is an annual event.
jeans are a type of clothing.
You are likely to find a typewriter ribbon in the museum.
Sometimes going to sleep causes latency.
a person can shout at someone.
Religion is an abstract idea.
Something you find at a fair is carnies.
a person doesn't want laws.
LLullaillaco is a volcano in Argentina.
Rome is a city in Italy.
Sometimes having an examination causes panic.
A society is a large group of people that live together.
You are likely to find a handgun in a police station.
A party is a group of people having fun together.
a pub is for having a beer.
A cat wants to catch mice.
a person wants to have money to buy chocolate.
porter is a very dark beer.
Something you find in the space shuttle is an astronaut's pen.
a piccolo is a musical instrument.
A steakhouse is a restaurant.
You are likely to find people in love.
You are likely to find scenery in a painting.
cholesterol is a substance, produced in the body that can clog the arteries.
Something you find in a drawer is a gun.
envy is a kind of emotion.
serving justice is for police.
Virginia is part of the United States of America.
The effect of running after the ball is catching it.
You are likely to find a cow in Wisconsin. 
A second is sometimes a unit of time.
Glory is part of life.
A person can chair a committee.
Tea is a drink.
Something you might do while going to an opera is say goodbye to the dog.
kissing is for displaying affection.
You would wait your turn because you want to be polite.
a necklace is for wearing around your neck.
Shrimp is a food that needs to be cooked before being eaten.
Google is the biggest search engine in the USA.
The last thing you do when you fish is clean the fish.
learning is used for understanding.
Insurance is a way of paying someone else to take some of your risk.
Something you find in a house is mail.
You would buy food because you want to eat.
Toothpaste cleans teeth.
a present can surprise a child.
Something you find on the street is lanes.
a person doesn't want to fall from great heights.
You are likely to find a self adhesive label in a self adhesive label box.
A cranberry pie is a very tasty dessert.
wolves howl.
attending a rock concert requires a ticket to get in.
Something that might happen while playing tennis is you miss the ball.
taking the stand requires an exhibit.
A closet is usually dark.
bags are often made of plastic.
You would bungee jump from a high bridge because you want a thrill.
Something you find at the beach is a pier.
Something you find in the street is beggars.
a ticket slot is for putting a ticket in.
scoring a home run is for winning.
A doorway is a opening to another area.
You are likely to find a body in a house.
You are likely to find a fluoride toothpaste in the grocery store.
a cellar is used for storage.
An hourglass is an elegant way to tell time.
You can use god to justify hate.
a person doesn't want to have a tax audit.
Something you need to do before you run twenty-six miles is stretch.
Bacteria causes tooth decay.
Something you find in the countryside is farmland.
a person wants to get enough sleep.
You are likely to find a tabby cat in your lap.
A parcel service can ship packages.
A canoe is a type of boat.
Something you might do while reading a book is fall asleep.
You are likely to find a bottle on or in a cupboard.
Some people enjoy winter sports.
Something that might happen as a consequence of being involved in an accident is liability.
a tree is used for climbing.
chatting with friends is for being social.
A table of contents is part of a book.
You can use a pit to trap.
A skunk can smell pretty bad.
Emails come over the Internet.
You are likely to find a glass of milk in the refrigerator.
You can use a hat to keep a bald head from getting sunburned.
a person wants to be witty.
Something you find at the supermarket is produce.
A doorknob is part of a door.
Intel is a company.
Plutonium is a nuclear waste.
making bread is for making sandwiches.
a person wants to understand the world around them.
Something you find on a pizza is Canadian bacon.
Grease is a solid fuel.
a front room is used for guests.
Something you find in the refrigerator is drawers.
You would wait tables because you want to earn money.
An egg is a single biological cell.
a parking zone is used for parking vehicles.
You are likely to find a cat in someone's lap.
Something you find in the ocean is plankton.
Something you find in the universe is life.
an office building is used for business functions.
The last thing you do when you weed the garden is throw the weeds in the compost pile.
Wind is air in motion.
The last thing you do when you pay cash is get a receipt.
a person doesn't want to eat spoiled food.
A set is made of elements.
shallow water is for fishing.
a theater can show a movie.
Something you find at a street corner is a lamppost.
a brick is made of clay.
You are likely to find a stadium in any large city.
passing your university exams requires lots of studying.
If you want to check vital signs then you should feel for a pulse.
a person wants a fair trial.
You are likely to find a hall in any building.
Something you find in the oven is meatloaf.
If you want to surf the net then you should buy a computer.
A tornado is a powerful force of nature.
Companies is the plural of company.
Scotland is part of the British Isles.
Miners can mine ores.
Something you find in a plane is people.
gerbils can nibble.
If you want to surf then you should have a surf board.
One of the things you do when you view a video is press play on the VCR.
hens can produce eggs.
A statue is a work of art.
Something you find at a bowling alley is a pool table.
The composition of the Earth is 17 percent magnesium.
singular is a kind of quality.
some wines are tart.
humans keep possessions in the house.
Something you find in a plane is aisles.
Oklahoma is part of the United States of America.
there are many stars in the galaxy.
Something you find at a bus stop is bums.
singing requires breathing.
Nebraska is part of the United States of America.
Somewhere a heart can be is inside a body.
You are likely to find an anemone in a tide pool. 
You are likely to find a monkey in a research laboratory.
New Jersey is part of the United States of America.
You are likely to find a bookstore in a shopping mall.
People can drown in water.
Toucan is a bird.
Something that might happen when you die is your body is buried.
You are likely to find bread in a market.
You would get some money from someone because you want to buy something.
living things are made of cells.
Something that might happen while getting in line is a long wait.
If you want to learn then you should read.
a vacation would make you want to have fun.
mice are rodents.
a flea wants to bite.
Something you find in the refrigerator is moldy leftovers.
going outside for an evening is for having fun.
Auk is a bird.
communism was the system of government of the soviet union.
You are likely to find a highway in the country.
Sometimes yelling causes a sore throat.
going to work is for being productive.
The effect of agreeing with someone is harmony.
Something you find on the moon is a footprint.
waiting tables requires customers.
Something you might do while cooking dinner is taste the food.
You are likely to find a weasel in a den.
Air has pressure.
a desk drawer is for storing things.
wood can be used as fuel.
a gel is for hair styling.
The effect of testing your strength is to know its limits.
weeding the garden requires knowing the weeds from the vegetables.
a marker is for coloring.
People can be altruistic.
Something you find in the newspaper is the news.
One of the things you do when you buy a shirt is try it on first.
cheese tastes good.
A mouth can kiss another mouth.
a long wait would make you want to leave the line.
The effect of playing a game of chess is frustration.
Something you find in a cabinet is a martini glass.
Something that might happen while making a shopping list is writing.
You would fight the enemy because they are trying to hurt you.
Something you might do while playing ball is kick the ball.
CNN is a television channel which reports on current events.
A flat is a kind of dwelling.
If you want to memorize then you should read.
a person doesn't want to get robbed.
Something you find at confession is a sin.
Something that might happen as a consequence of printing on the printer is getting a printout.
You are likely to find a potato in a French fry.
Something you find in a car is a gear shift.
You are likely to find a closet in a house.
You would add up numbers because you want a total.
You can use a bassoon to play music.
DNA can be used to convict someone.
You would ride a bike because you want to go somewhere.
a text is used for learning.
a main entrance is used for entering a building.
Something you might do while watching a TV show is eat.
You are likely to find a tape machine room in a building.
Something that might happen when you wait in line is losing your patience.
Something you find in a pantry is dishes.
You are likely to find God in heaven.
If you want to be successful then you should work hard.
Something that might happen as a consequence of dancing is fatigue.
The effect of cooking is having food.
You would buy fresh fruits and vegetables because you want good nutrition.
a tablecloth is for protecting a table.
Something you might do while flirting is winking.
You are likely to find a water spout in the sink.
You would tell many people about something because it is good news.
The Internet is commonly know as the net.
flirting is for attracting a mate.
One of the things you do when you get a contract is sign it.
You are likely to find a dog in a house.
Something you find in a bus is a steering wheel.
If you want to eat breakfast then you should cook oatmeal.
A person can ride a bicycle up a hill.
If you want to start a fire then you should get matches.
an American can understand English. 
Wine may be served with dinner.
If you want to take a phone call then you should pick it up.
A bag can hold things.
You are likely to find a dime store in the past.
You can use a bobby pin to hold hair.
Something you find in a cabinet is office supplies.
truck is a vehicle type.
One of the things you do when you play a game of chess is move a pawn.
You are likely to find a horse in Utah.
You are likely to find a hole in Swiss cheese.
Something that might happen when you have an examination is a check up.
You are likely to find a basket of laundry in a Laundromat.
If you want to entertain someone then you should sing a song.
You are likely to find a snake in underbrush.
A stamen is part of a flower.
Forgetting is the reverse of remembering.
Something that might happen as a consequence of conducting a trial is justice.
Something that might happen while changing your appearance is buying new clothes.
Something you find in the cupboard is a book.
a person doesn't want to suffer with pain.
A cow has four legs.
having a shower is for shaving.
Some people march to the beat of a different drummer.
Something that might happen while fighting war is people get killed.
Americans do not eat cats.
Something that might happen while waiting tables is you spill drinks.
Something that might happen while building a tower out of toy blocks is it falls over.
murder with a screwdriver is evil.
a person doesn't want to be nervous.
If you want to light a match then you should strike it against something.
You would swim because you want to exercise.
Sometimes weeding the garden causes better flowers.
playing is for Socializing. 
You are likely to find a monkey in a cartoon.
Something you find in the freezer is cold.
Paprika is a spice.
a Person can write a letter to a friend.
reading a book is for entertainment and knowledge.
going to a performance requires a ticket.
trees grow in dirt.
Words can be written.
An office is a place where business is conducted.
Something you find at a conference is a delegate.
A nut is a seed.
Trivial Pursuit is a board game.
obstructing justice is for protecting someone.
going to a film requires tickets.
Something you find on a table is a napkin holder.
a person doesn't want to be strangled.
Something that might happen as a consequence of winning a baseball game is ice cream for everyone.
Sometimes passing your university exams causes getting a good job.
Something you find on a desk is a copy holder. 
Your wardrobe is your collection of clothing.
giving assistance is for helping someone in need.
Something you find at a home is a TV.
trolls are monsters.
Something you find in the countryside is flowers.
A duck can swim on the water.
a Farmer can milk a goat.
Something you find in jail is cells.
Something you find in a park is a kid.
You would kiss because you want pleasure.
You can use a check to buy something.
a human can need food.
Boredom would make you want to play chess.
Something you might do while talking is walking.
talking to someone is for getting information.
One of the things you do when you become inebriated is slur your speech.
taking the stand is for witnessing in a trial.
winning a baseball game requires a good team.
Something you find at the beach is sunburned people.
Some hot dogs have mustard on them.
a tree is used for wood.
eggs are high in cholesterol.
Sometimes reading a newspaper causes learning.
A person can age with grace.
an acoustic guitar is for performing music.
You are likely to find castanets in Spain.
Something you find at dinner is napkins.
You can use a courtyard to have a garden.
You are likely to find a canoe in a river.
Something you might do while baking a cake is mixing the ingredients.
a handgun is for shooting.
Something that might happen when you play sport is you get hurt.
doing housework requires a broom.
You are likely to find an acoustic guitar in a music shop.
Something that might happen when you eat a hamburger is choking.
One of the things you do when you go into a coma is become unconscious.
A whale lives in the ocean.
A cat can mother her kittens.
The effect of jumping rope is exercise.
eating vegetables requires chewing.
Something you find atop a mountain is a guru.
If you want to start a fire then you should light a match.
Something you find in the kitchen is a microwave oven.
Something you find at a fair is a farm animal.
If you want to sing then you should join a choir.
Somewhere a car can be is on the bottom of a lake.
Something that might happen while going to the store is you buy raisins.
competing against someone requires a strategy to win.
Something you find on the windowsill is cat hair.
An anchor is a metal device.
You are likely to find a projectile in a weapon.
Something you find at the airport is waiting areas.
Something you find at a hospital is oxygen tents.
a choir can sing to a crowd.
a person doesn't want a speeding ticket.
If you want to paint then you should use a brush.
a credit card is for purchasing things.
Something that might happen when you meet girls is talking.
If you want to chop firewood then you should sharpen your ax.
cats sleep a lot.
Sometimes flirting causes you to get slapped.
hanging out at the bar is for drunks.
Sometimes doing the housework causes fatigue.
You are likely to find a crab in a tide pool.
a showroom is for displaying things.
Something you find at the top of a mountain is trees.
A gallery is for displaying artwork.
You are likely to find a mother in her house.
Tabby is a kind of cat.
A forest fire can light the sky for miles around.
If you want to make a phone call then you should look up the number.
You are likely to find a marmoset in the woods.
A runner can finish a race.
Taiwan is part of China.
a store offers things for sale.
If you want to go to a sporting event then you should buy a ticket to the event.
Something that might happen while taking an examination is sweating.
Something you find in the sky is planets.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to a performance is you leave early.
going to bed is for Making love.
an eraser is for erasing mistakes.
You are likely to find a mouse in the pantry.
adding up numbers is for getting their sum.
You are likely to find a cat in a person's lap.
going to the zoo would make you want to see exhibits.
breathing requires lungs.
Something that might happen as a consequence of eating dinner is satisfying hunger.
Chefs can cook well.
Scientists often work in a laboratory.
Sometimes socializing causes a pack mentality.
Something you might do while finding information is use a dictionary.
Somewhere a fruit can be is on a tree.
A person does not want Alzheimer's disease.
A tree is a form of plant which grows to a large size in order to present a maximum surface area to the sun.
tying your shoelace is for not looking like a slob.
Something you find in a car is people.
Something that might happen as a consequence of traveling is jet lag.
Kissing shows affection.
Something that might happen as a consequence of working is making money.
Fur is usually soft.
the Atlantic Ocean is for sailing on.
designing software requires a lot of time.
Sisters are part of the same family.
You are likely to find a bed sheet in a closet.
Something you find at fairgrounds is a show horse.
having a physical examination requires time.
Something you might do while eating is drink.
You would socialize because you want to have fun with your friends.
Something that might happen while howling with laughter is you snort.
The effect of dancing is exercise.
Something that might happen while playing sports is you may be injured.
Something you might do while cooking dinner is preheat the oven.
An axe is used for cutting.
You are likely to find a check book cover in a purse.
Sometimes going to a play causes you to be happy.
a house is for Protection from the elements.
The effect of opening a bag of chips is usually snacking.
Something you need to do before you travel is pack a suitcase.
Sometimes signing a contract causes stress.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in flight.
If you want to do a crossword puzzle then you should buy a newspaper.
A plate is a dish.
Something that might happen as a consequence of driving your car is a wreck.
A Java applet is a small program that runs in a restricted environment that is managed by your browser.
Something that might happen when you run is you fall down.
You are likely to find a cow in a paddock.
some seats are more comfortable than others.
Sometimes cleaning your room causes sneezing.
The effect of attending a meeting is sharing information.
The effect of meeting interesting people is conversation.
Ballet is a kind of dance.
need would make you want to paint a house.
Something you might do while committing perjury is lie to a judge.
You would bungee jump from a high bridge because you want to smash your head.
Sometimes doing housework causes you to be tired.
attending a rock concert is for enjoying the music.
A tissue holder contains tissues.
Something you might do while going to bed is take a pill.
You are likely to find an armchair in a furniture store.
Something you find in the water is tadpoles.
playing a harp requires hands.
going to get the mail would make you want to walk.
If you want to become more clean then you should take a bath.
Something that might happen as a consequence of driving your car is you have less gas.
exhaustion would make you want to have a rest.
You would play basketball because it's fun.
Something you find at a motel is a room for sleeping.
Something that might happen while playing sports is you cheat.
a movie can star an actor.
Something you might do while hiking is pick flowers.
Something you find at the library is a wealth of knowledge.
Something that might happen when you purchase a cellular phone is you get a battery charger.
Sometimes designing software causes headaches.
passing the time would make you want to play cards.
Something you find on the ground is dust.
Something that might happen while reading to your children is they learn.
going to work is for earning a living.
The effect of cooking is making your favorite dish.
Pain is part of life.
You would buy products because you want to spend money.
You are likely to find a canal in Amsterdam.
Something that might happen when you read a book is you lose track of time.
a person doesn't want to be an idiot.
You would have a bath because you want to relax.
The effect of seeing your idea become reality is fulfilling.
The effect of playing chess is deep thought.
The effect of falling is gravity kicks in.
attending school requires a schedule.
The couple can tie the knot.
Sometimes singing causes anger.
A murder would make you want to conduct a trial.
The effect of making a phone call is that you can speak to another person.
some people like to give orders.
You would pay the bills because you want to keep the phone on.
nature is important.
strength would make you want to wrestle.
Something you find at a car show is hubcaps.
Something that might happen when you love someone else is you tell them.
The first thing you do when you go fishing is buy bait.
Snow skiing is a sport.
Something you might do while waiting in line is read.
The effect of going fishing is capturing fish for consumption.
buying presents for others requires liking them.
If you want to kiss someone then you should love them.
a hot air balloon floats in the air.
Ice floats.
The effect of seeing a movie is sadness.
a person wants the best things for their friends.
You would remember something because you want to win a prize on a game show.
Something you might do while cashing in is selling out.
a trumpet is made of brass.
You are likely to find a passport case in a suitcase.
Something you might do while having a haircut is have highlights.
a basket holds things.
Heat is the opposite of cold.
opening a business is for providing service.
a trunk is a part of a car.
taking finals is for students.
Sometimes taking the bus causes panic.
If you want to tape a television show then you should get a VCR.
dogs are alert.
Something you might do while changing your appearance is shaving.
Something you might do while seeing artifacts is think.
If you want to go to a film then you should get some money.
Sometimes having an epileptic fit causes trouble.
a motorcycle is faster than a scooter.
a forklift is used for lifting pallets.
A hot bath would make you want to relax.
You are likely to find a glass of milk in a fridge.
Something you find at the beach is broken glass.
a pillowcase is used for keeping pillows clean.
Something you find at the beach is people swimming.
Something that might happen while making a phone call is a busy signal.
One of the things you do when you play poker is win a pot.
You are likely to find a turnstile in an amusement park.
Something you find in a trunk is a case.
If you want to view a video then you should use a VCR. 
You are likely to find a potato in a grocer shop.
Something you find in a cabinet is rubber stamps.
a heat source is for cooking.
You are likely to find a parlor in a Victorian house.
a pike is used for pulling.
a card is used for identification.
Something you find at a restaurant is a busboy.
a bridge railing is used for safety.
a system is used for organizing things.
a person doesn't want to get burned.
A chest is a part of your body.
Something that might happen when you go on a vacation is you go to the beach.
visiting an art gallery is for viewing art.
There is no air in outer space.
You are likely to find an isle in an ocean.
Something that might happen when you cook is burn the food.
Something you need to do before you go jogging is stretch.
You would listen to music because you need to relax.
You are likely to find a herringbone in a herring.
You are likely to find a mini bar in a home.
Somewhere a policeman can be is in the police station.
Something you might do while taking an oath is swear.
a board is a flat piece of wood.
a woman is for Bearing children.
The last thing you do when you listen is understand.
entertaining people is for Making them laugh.
Sometimes listening causes understanding.
You can use a restaurant storage area to store food.
The effect of passing your university exams is elation.
a laser is used for cutting.
Something you find in the garage is grease.
Something you find at a funeral is sad people.
You are likely to find a fungus in your basement.
Something that might happen while applying for a job is questions are asked.
You would learn about a subject because it interests me.
One of the things you do when you listen is shut your mouth.
You are likely to find a window in a wall.
Something you find at a show is people dancing and singing.
People fear violence.
a highlighter pen is for highlighting.
Safety pins are used on cloth baby diapers.
You can use a mound to stand on.
You can use a payment counter to make a payment.
A mom can mother a baby.
You are likely to find a lead pencil in a classroom.
Something you find in a boat is water skis. 
trees and flowers are plants.
Something you find at the theater is programs.
Many stadiums have walls.
heat is energy.
You are likely to find a baseball stadium in a city.
Lumber comes from trees and trees come from forests.
You can use a bookcase to store books.
If you want to start a fire then you should use matches.
sleeping at night is for dreams.
You can use a tapestry to decorate a room.
a Consumer buys products.
Something you find on the street is gum.
If you want to program then you should learn a programming language.
going into a coma requires serious medical problems.
You would have a physical examination because you want to check your health.
popcorn and a good movie would make you want to go to bed.
If you want to wash your clothes then you should fill the washer.
Pliers are tools that hold things.
You are likely to find an icebox in a junk yard.
Something that might happen while finding information is you buy a dog.
An axe is used to chop trees.
Something you find at a movie is a film.
a ladder is for painting the ceiling.
visiting an art gallery is for relaxing.
You are likely to find a fox in meadow.
Something you find at a zoo is exotic animals.
a director can direct a movie.
Something you find in the basement is electrical appliances.
The Internet is a collection of connected computers.
Something that might happen as a consequence of opening a gift is you get a present.
music expresses feelings.
If you want to go to the zoo then you should bring a camera.
The effect of going to a film is enjoyment.
a person wants interesting challenges.
Sometimes taking an examination causes anxiety.
water is for swimming in.
You are likely to find a dry storage in a warehouse.
children need attention.
chatting with friends is for catching up with each other.
Something you might do while attending a classical concert is buy a ticket.
a cat is for companionship.
Imaginary numbers are a part of Algebra.
If you want to play baseball then you should find players.
The effect of cleaning the house is a clean house.
Some people suffer from hunger.
If you want to stand in a queue then you should go to the post office.
Your leg is part of your body.
bagels with cream cheese taste good.
Epoxy is a glue.
Chesterfield is a brand of cigarettes.
Every snowflake is unique.
You are likely to find a spoon in a bowl.
plungers are used for clearing blocked toilets.
A person can pick his nose.
Something you find over the rainbow is sky.
You can use an upright piano to play music.
Something that might happen when you get a good grade is dad smiles.
a person doesn't want to be shunned.
Money can buy food.
the mother is holding the baby.
Communication with an non-supporting spouse is frustrating.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having a party is you have to clean up a big mess.
Something you find at a home is a blanket.
playing football is for learning teamwork.
A woman is a female adult person.
People do not have wings.
The effect of giving assistance is helpfulness.
You are likely to find a pail in the garage.
a person doesn't want to have to go to the hospital.
going to a sporting event is for fun.
Offices are places of business.
You can use a radio to listen to talk shows.
Contact lenses are an alternative to wearing glasses.
The effect of fighting war is bloodshed.
If you want to go to an opera then you should enjoy the music.
The plains are flat.
You would write a poem because you're inspirational.
Horses live in herds.
Sometimes using a computer causes pleasure.
You are likely to find a grape in my mouth.
Something you find in the backseat of a car is a person.
beginning work is for starting on a project.
You are likely to find a soap dish in the sink.
Something that might happen when you bring home some fish is the house smells.
You are likely to find a blowfish in salt water.
eating breakfast requires food.
Sometimes living causes life.
You are likely to find a sign in any city.
a sofa is for lying on.
An axe can be used to chop things.
a hair dryer is for drying wet hair..
an arrow can hit a target.
TV is short for television.
Sauda is in Norway.
a rope can trip a person.
a person doesn't want to repeat themselves.
violence is bad.
You would take a walk because it's a nice day.
You are likely to find a snake in The Amazon.
Something you find at the office is staples.
Something you find at a fast-food restaurant is incompetence. 
You can use a supermarket to buy chicken.
A wrench is used to tighten something.
playing a game with your friends requires you to have friends.
You are likely to find a shopping bag in a supermarket.
You would clean the house because you want to live in a clean house.
a high rise is used for offices.
Something you find at dinner is bread.
Vacuum cleaners pick up dirt.
If you want to go public then you should have a company.
The effect of getting the latest hairstyle for a night out on the town is looking good.
Something you find at a mall is many stores.
a baby cat is called a kitten.
Something you find at a war is bullets.
a refrigerator freezer is used for keeping food longer.
Something you find at a car show is tires.
loneliness would make you want to make friends.
People worry about the future.
a person doesn't want a broken nose.
Something you might do while going for a walk is avoid bees.
rats can bite.
tables are used to hold things.
a person wants inspiration .
going to the zoo is for having fun.
Something that might happen while skating is you go fast.
Something you find in a suitcase is a file.
Something you find in the kitchen is cooking utensils.
You would put someone on the stand because you want to hear testimony.
The last thing you do when you cook is clean up the kitchen.
a person doesn't want rabies.
a saloon is a kind of bar.
Bipeds walk on two feet.
Something you might do while chatting with friends is giggle.
Something you need to do before you make a shopping list is look through the cupboards.
You would enjoy a film because you want to relax.
You are likely to find a traffic artery in a big city.
Something you find at a toy store is a toy train.
You are likely to find a shark in the zoo.
You are likely to find an eraser holder in an office.
propellers spin.
You are likely to find a saucepan in a cupboard.
French toast is not a kind of a dessert.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in a refuge.
You are likely to find cells in the brain.
A parlor is a room in your house used for entertaining company.
Something you might do while returning to work is say hi.
A lawn mower cuts grass.
the color of grass is always green.
You are likely to find a fungus in rotting vegetation.
a rectangle is a figure.
Sometimes taking a course causes boredom.
Something that might happen when you procreate is a life is formed.
riding a bicycle requires good balance.
The effect of going to a movie is fun.
Something you find on television is music videos.
Something you find at a bar is an alcoholic beverage.
sailing race.
A helicopter can land in more places than an airplane.
Something you might do while playing football is get tackled.
You are likely to find a marmoset in the encyclopedia.
recording something is for listening to it later.
The Army can guard Our Country.
a typewriter key is for pressing.
a person wants approval.
Some hallways are dark.
A cat can wash itself with its tongue.
jeans are material for making pants.
bad smells would make you want to clean clothing.
Most people have two arms.
Disagreement isn't bad.
You would go to work because you want to make money.
You are likely to find dandruff shampoo in the bathroom.
Something that might happen when you start a fire is getting warm.
goldfish are kept as pets.
woolen fabric is used for making a sweater.
The manager can chair the meeting.
Something that might happen while stopping your car is using the brakes.
a spoon is for eating cereal.
Something you find at the repair shop is a wrench.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to sleep is rest.
an adult can help a child.
Something that might happen as a consequence of teaching other people is you take pride in their success.
Some blimps are filled with helium.
You can use a thruway to travel.
a fare card is used for riding the subway.
a chicken has feathers.
You can use hand luggage to carry stuff.
The last thing you do when you watch a television show is turn the television off.
Something you find on the porch is a railing.
Something you find in a backpack is schoolbooks.
Something you find at a conference is bad food.
an illegal alien wants a better life.
bills would make you want to sell your new book.
a person wants free food.
people exchange ideas with each other.
Something you find in a medicine chest is mouthwash.
A program can run on a computer.
Something you find in a casino is a rich person.
You would pray because you want help from a god.
You would reach a tentative agreement because you want to stop the arguing.
You would run because you want to get away.
Something that might happen as a consequence of driving a car is you use gas.
pigs are eaten.
Sometimes playing chess causes frustration.
To understand the event "Robert took his medication.", it is important to know that sickness is bad.
If you want to go to a restaurant then you should be hungry.
A question would make you want to find information.
Something you find in class is a blackboard.
Something you find in the ocean is kelp.
Brass is a kind of metal.
A president is a politician.
You can use a conference auditorium to lecture.
Something that might happen when you eat an apple is you find a worm.
plungers can unclog drains.
If you want to have a conversation then you should start talking to someone.
You are likely to find a letter opener in any office.
Something you find on the table is dinner.
Something you find in space is hydrogen atoms.
a dog can guide the blind.
If you want to go to a play then you should buy tickets to a play.
red and blue make purple.
Something you find at a friend's wedding is a groom.
If you want to program then you should have much patience.
buying something for a loved one requires money.
If you want to open a gift then you should rip the wrapping paper.
robots are used to build cars.
salt is for preserving meat.
You are likely to find a ferret in Wyoming.
chickens can't fly.
You are likely to find a general ledger in an office.
Something that might happen when you eat healthily is you live longer.
Something you need to do before you fly a kite is wait for a windy day.
life boats are a fixture on the ship.
Sometimes washing your clothes causes your clothes to shrink.
Sometimes staying in bed causes rest.
Taking an exam is for passing the grade at school. 
When class is half through you take a midterm exam. 
You would take a midterm because you want to get a good grade..
polo is an English sport.
Something that might happen when you jump at the chance is seizing an opportunity.
You are likely to find an eye in a mammal.
If you want to travel then you should determine the destination.
The USSR was a country.
You would pay the bills because you want your utilities to stay on.
Men can fancy women.
Something that might happen while snoring is making noise.
You are likely to find a dentist office in an office building.
If you want to jump rope then you should go outside.
Sometimes death causes rebirth.
a person doesn't want to be in a flood.
Something you find on the lawn is a lawn ornament.
men wear jewelry.
An activity liars can do is give false information.
A factory can bottle water.
You are likely to find a flute in an orchestra.
a cat's breath smells like cat food.
You are likely to find a piano in a church.
teaching other people is for spreading your knowledge.
a person wants American wages.
You can use a canvas to paint a picture on.
eating in a restaurant is for satisfying your hunger.
You would add up numbers because you are an accountant.
You are likely to find a ficus in a lobby.
life rings save lives.
Opportunity would make you want to jump at the chance.
A gift is free..
the hour glass is filled with sand.
You are likely to find a potato in a bag.
Something you find on the fridge is a refrigerator magnet.
a person wants fame.
Something that might happen as a consequence of watching a TV show is boredom.
The Empire State Building is in New York.
Sometimes breathing causes relaxation.
Firemen put out fires.
a person wants to go home.
The first thing you do when you lose weight is buy new clothes.
If you want to move a car then you should hire a tow truck.
Something you find at school is drug dealers.
violins are string instruments.
Crickets look a bit like grasshoppers.
Something that might happen while making a better world is you feel good about yourself.
The first thing you do when you bury the cat is dig a hole.
sunglasses block out sunlight.
If you want to write a story then you should start.
a movie house is for showing films.
Penguins are very large birds.
a person doesn't want a dead battery.
A sofa should be comfortable.
Fear would make you want to run.
The tires are the things on your car that make contact with the road.
Mice like to eat cheese.
Something you find on the subway is litter.
spies can bug telephones.
Something you might do while performing is laugh.
people age.
You are likely to find a subway stop in new York city.
If you want to drive then you should get a license.
hair gel is for styling the hair.
floppy disks are passé.
Something you find at a wedding is a wedding gown.
children can tie their own shoes.
watching a television show is for entertainment.
a rooster in the hen house would make you want to get up early.
a toy car is for racing.
going into a trance requires concentration.
Something you find at a neighbor's house is tools.
A male duck is called a drake.
Irrational is not necessarily bad.
If you want to sit down then you should pull up a chair.
A farmer can water his crops.
Something you find on a desk is an air mail stamp.
An eraser removes pencil marks.
Something you might do while eating in a restaurant is order pie.
You are likely to find an index card cabinet in an office.
Something you find at a party is music.
sod are squares of grass which we use to provide an instant lawn.
Sometimes taking a walk causes you to find a stray dog.
getting some free tickets would make you want to go to a sporting event.
Sometimes answering questions causes embarrassment. 
Iraq poses a threat to regional stability.
getting exercise is for feeling good about yourself.
People hunt ducks.
Clocks keep time.
children need play things.
You would sell your new book because you want respect.
writing a term paper is for demonstrating knowledge of a subject.
Gold is an expensive metal.
Cheese is good to eat.
civil disobedience would make you want to obstruct justice.
The last thing you do when you see a movie is leave the theater.
a noun is part of speech.
taking a bath requires water.
having a conversation is for communicating an idea.
You would take an exam because you need to pass the course.
humans are naturally curious.
You can use a kosher delicatessen to buy kosher food.
Something that might happen while giving a gift is you will be thanked.
watching a TV show is for wasting time.
Babies cry a lot.
Pepsi bottles are not the size shown on vending machine pictures.
pews are made of wood.
Darts is a popular pub game.
having children is expensive.
hungry feelings would make you want to eat lunch.
a laser is used for eye surgery.
A boat is a means of transport.
wanting a good grade would make you want to study for a subject.
doing some exercises is for toning your muscles.
stopwatch in hand.
Sometimes fencing causes the dogs to stay in the yard.
People gamble for money.
Sometimes attending a rock concert causes extreme drunkenness Something you find on a boat is the deck.
a deli restaurant is a place to get food quickly.
returning to work requires movement.
The effect of having a rest is new energy.
Nutmeg is a spice.
If you want to celebrate then you should be happy.
A fuse can short out.
a diamond is a stone.
People need skis to ski.
You are likely to find a mall in the suburbs.
Something that might happen while playing sport is you punch your opponent.
You would travel because you want to see new places.
You are likely to find a mouse in a nest.
You would analyze something because you want your grandson to learn.
Something you find at a show is a car.
Sometimes fighting the enemy causes death.
The effect of playing a game is having a good time.
You are likely to find a heating room in a basement.
You would pass a course because you want to take more courses.
A pump is used to inflate tires.
a moving walkway is used for airports.
Rubber bounces.
turtles can hide in their shells.
plants lose foliage in the autumn.
Something that might happen when you eat lunch is you get energy to get through the day.
lots of plants are green.
Delicate objects are easily broken.
a landmass is for living on.
You are likely to find a fungus in a Petri dish.
You are likely to find a planet in a galaxy.
excess is bad.
Something that might happen when you buy a shirt is check the price.
The last thing you do when you pay by check is sign your name.
Zimbabwe is a country.
electricity powers appliances.
Something that might happen when you go for a haircut is you tip the barber.
You are likely to find a disposable razor in a medicine cabinet.
If you want to have an epileptic fit then you should get epilepsy.
The statue of liberty was a gift from the French riding a bicycle is for Competition.
Sharp things cut.
Washers go through large amounts of soap and paper towels.
You are likely to find tweed in a jacket.
a notebook is for taking notes.
Horses like to play.
LSD is a drug.
Something you might do while going for a jog is bring a water bottle.
a chest is for storing clothes.
If you want to leave the line then you should excuse yourself.
Somewhere a dog can be is in the backyard.
Sometimes shopping causes well stocked cupboards.
Sometimes teaching other people causes embarrassment.
If you want to have food then you should buy it.
students attend a university.
knots are tied together.
Sometimes buying something causes you to cross something off your errand list.
people use telephones to communicate with other people.
Somewhere an automobile can be is in the fast lane.
A boy can cry wolf.
Something that might happen when you listen to music is you turn up the volume.
a person doesn't want to loose his job.
Somewhere an automobile can be is in the shop.
some animals are extinct.
Something you need to do before you have a heart attack is eat fatty foods.
A person can drive a car.
a worker can drive to work.
You would write a term paper because you want a good grade.
Sometimes waiting on tables causes tired, achy feet.
A feather is light.
You are likely to find a bugle in a band.
a fedora is a type of hat.
Something that might happen when you eat is you spill milk.
a bed is for napping on.
The first thing you do when you water a plant is get some water in a container.
mosquitoes can spread disease.
The effect of getting a job is salary.
The first thing you do when you eat dinner is sit down.
You would punch someone because you want to really hurt them.
If you want to wash your car then you should close the windows.
sleep problems would make you want to snore.
Sometimes taking an exam causes failure.
An up quark is part of a neutron.
some wines are sweet.
You would fly in an airplane because you want to avoid crashing.
People can make art.
a person wants tasty food.
Egypt is a country in Africa.
The last thing you do when you surf the web is turn off your computer.
Snakes bite.
greed is an emotion.
You are likely to find a work of art in a gallery.
Something that might happen as a consequence of studying is your wife will be impressed.
Objects reflect light.
The chance to hear Marvin Minsky would make you want to attend a lecture.
hammer is used for hammering nails.
Laughter is contagious.
a man can father children.
The first thing you do when you stand in a queue is find the end of the line.
If you want to eat a hamburger then you should buy hamburger.
Something that might happen while cleaning the house is you find a lost item.
Something you find at a mall is a shoe store.
Most republicans are not democrats.
You are likely to find a drawing room in a house.
Something you might do while skiing is fall in the snow.
The first thing you do when you go for a walk is put my shoes on.
DNA is nature's instruction set for building living things.
A typewriter is a machine.
wondering would make you want to remember.
If you want to watch a movie then you should go to cinema.
The flute is a woodwind instrument.
a person doesn't want to be disliked.
The effect of getting a divorce is pain for children.
Something that might happen when you have a party is you have fun.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having a pee is relief.
The last thing you do when you get exercise is cool down.
The effect of sleighing ride is fun.
Airplanes cannot fly in water.
If you want to go see a play then you should go to the theater A person can start a car.
Something you find at home is a toilet.
Love requires hard work.
If you want to clean then you should get some soap.
a love of music would make you want to listen to the radio.
The Internet is a large group of networked computers.
Something you find at a grocery store is groceries.
The last thing you do when you go to get a haircut is pay the barber.
You are likely to find a monkey in a cage in a zoo.
An ache is a kind of pain.
boredom would make you want to see an exciting story.
One of the things you do when you play lacrosse is sweat.
You would conquer your opponent because you want his apple trees.
Something you find at the gym is a dumbbell.
a sport is a game.
going to bed requires sleep.
working requires ambition.
Tel Aviv is part of Israel.
Something you find in the Arctic is Scientific Research Centers.
If you want to eat breakfast in bed then you should cook the breakfast.
You are likely to find a human in a sauna.
jeans are a type of pants.
Something you find at a church is community.
You would hear testimony because you are on a jury.
You would test your strength because you want to show off.
If you want to propose to a woman then you should get advice from her best friend.
A painter can paint the wall.
hearing the news requires access to news.
A neighbor can sometimes be annoying.
Something you find on the subway is a mugger.
Something you need to do before you eat vegetables is buy them.
reproducing is for continuing a species.
Something you find in the garage is cobwebs.
a group is a set.
A competitor wants to win.
Sometimes watching a movie causes your dog to snuggle at your feet.
One of the things you do when you score a home run is listen to the roar of the crowd.
beer can be harmful.
You would print on the printer because you want a hard copy of your document.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing chess is you loose your knight.
Something that might happen as a consequence of getting a job is you receive a paycheck.
the desire to impress your mom would make you want to learn about a subject.
Children can play in a back yard.
designing software requires focus.
You are likely to find an oboe in an orchestra.
Love for another person would make you want to kiss.
You are likely to find a stringed instrument in an orchestra.
You would stay fit because you want to fit into your clothes.
cars pollute the air.
Somewhere a rocket can be is on the launch pad.
Something that might happen as a consequence of opening a business is you lose your money.
The effect of getting exercise is losing weight.
your child would make you want to go see a play.
Something you might do while making a better world is think.
Sometimes handling proposals causes boredom.
true love would make you want to propose to a woman.
You would go to a restaurant because you want a hamburger.
baking cookies would make you want to follow a recipe.
Something that might happen as a consequence of starting a fire is you go to jail.
joining the army is for protecting the country.
Something you find at a fraternity house is a frat boy.
People want the status of their tax to be paid.
Sometimes doing some exercises causes energy.
A track is a defined path.
Sometimes making a patchwork quilt causes enjoyment.
being at a family reunion would make you want to play baseball.
a sofa is used for lounging.
Glass is often cleaned.
Sometimes driving your car causes smoke.
The effect of expressing information is teaching other people.
Something that might happen while going on the stage is fear.
You would look through a telescope because you want to see stars.
Lithium is an alkaline metal.
Sometimes living causes pollution.
a cook can ready dinner.
Something you might do while taking an exam is chew on your pencil.
A failure to take risks is a failure to realize human potential.
Sometimes going to a concert causes enjoyment.
Hacking is a cyber crime activity.
Something that might happen when you walk the dog is you have fun.
an arch is an architectural structure.
A lake is a small sea surrounded by land.
tobacco would make you want to spit.
Norway is a seafaring nation.
Something that might happen when you wash clothes is you end up with dirty water.
Aluminum is an abundant element in the earth's crust.
going public requires guts.
TV is a way of saying television.
a person wants new toys.
Something you find on a desk is a message pad.
Something that might happen when you run is you get a cramp.
performing requires being in the right mood.
a linen chest is a place for storing linens.
One of the things you do when you play baseball is run.
Pure aluminum is a silvery-white metal.
You would eat breakfast because you want eggs.
many flowers smell good.
a paper page is used for reading.
classical music is a type of music.
Sometimes determining the truth causes upset people.
Pecan pie is a favorite desert food in the South Eastern part of the United States.
analyzing something is for getting details.
Arthritis is a disease which prevents the activity of walking.
a fountain pen is for signing documents.
A state is a point within a system.
You are likely to find a mailbox in an apartment complex.
A chapel is a small church.
Something that might happen while hurting someone else is you get arrested for assault.
making bread is for dinner.
You can use luggage to pack clothing.
Maui is a place in the state of Hawaii.
You are likely to find a string bass in a music shop.
An idea is any conception existing in the mind as a result of mental apprehension or activity.
a movie theater is used for watching movies.
The effect of a detonated bomb is an explosion.
Something you find in the refrigerator is lettuce.
Good manners are important.
A dog can smell fear.
A person doesn't want to be hurt by a loved one.
The effect of analyzing something is understanding it.
a soda can is a can containing soda.
You can use a handbag to carry money.
Something you find at a movie is Pepsi.
Sometimes mailing a letter causes anger.
You are likely to find tea in the kitchen.
Romance is a kind of loving.
An egg is created by a chicken.
Something that might happen when you read the news is you get bored.
morning is a time when it can rain.
You can use a kosher delicatessen to eat.
McDonald's is a fast food chain.
gerbils can run.
You can use a ventilation system to get fresh air.
Pluto is a dog’s name.
a foot is a kind of body part.
You can use a barber shop to get a haircut.
The effect of taking final exams is anxiety.
living requires eating food.
You are likely to find a heifer in the country.
a toilet is used for waste.
A second is part of a minute.
Something that might happen while passing a course is you feel pride.
You are likely to find a filament in incandescent light bulbs.
You can use a wheel to turn.
Trees die.
a bat is for playing baseball.
A track pad is part of a computer.
People wear shoes on their feet.
Sometimes leaving the line causes you to miss a movie.
Something that might happen when you see a story is you remember it.
Objects occupy space.
You can use an underground area to store things.
Something you find in marriage is love.
Something you find at school is a lunch room.
agreeing with someone requires understanding a point of view.
Elvis was a famous singer.
Something you might do while giving a gift is take a picture.
an animal is a creature.
losing consciousness requires lack of oxygen. 
If you want to get warm then you should put on a sweater.
The devil is in the details.
Something that might happen while washing dirt from between your toes is clean feet.
Something you find at a meeting is a discussion.
If you want to gather energy for tomorrow then you should rest.
rugby is a game played on horseback.
Something that might happen while playing sport is get injured.
Some people play the guitar.
You can use a piccolo to play music.
star trek is science fiction.
both muffins and celery are food.
You can use a French horn to play in an orchestra.
a battle is for fighting a war.
You would do the housework because you want clean floors.
Sometimes going to market causes you to fill up your refrigerator.
humans can taste a dish.
judges can settle an argument.
Insurance can be expensive.
If you want to buy a house then you should have a lot of money.
Methamphetamine is an addictive drug.
a wall is for holding up a roof.
A chow is a kind of dog.
You would give assistance because a person needs help.
Woodside is an oil and gas production and exploration company.
You are likely to find corn in a corn field.
Something you find in the countryside is a meadow.
Something you find at a fraternity house is a party.
Little Gem Arborvitae is a evergreen.
Children can be noisy.
You are likely to find a duvet in a bedroom.
Sometimes getting fit causes you to lose weight.
One of the things you do when you improve yourself is learn.
a person wants a working computer.
Something you find on a roof is thatch.
You are likely to find a monkey in a laboratory.
You would drive because you want to get someplace.
Something that might happen while hearing music is you tap your feet.
a prison is used for confining prisoners.
Fire can heat a room.
A sign of social decay is a lack of concern for other people.
Something you find in a waste bin is wrappers.
Something you find in a jar is candy.
Football is an American sport.
skin is an important organ.
books are full of writing.
You are likely to find a grape in a painting.
accountants can cook the books.
A crab is a creature which normally lives in salt water at the edge of the oceans.
a person can fear death.
You are likely to find an I-beam in construction.
a courtyard is an outside area surrounded by buildings.
firemen extinguish fires.
eating in a fast food restaurant requires standing in line.
horses wear horseshoes to protect their feet.
An airplane is a heavier-than-air flying machine.
The state is part of the country.
You are likely to find a paper sign in a store window.
doing the housework is for keeping your home clean.
A committee is an inefficient entity for working through a problem.
Physical objects can be touched.
Something you find in the oven is a pan.
you can find Bird eggs in a nest.
Driving a car is a dangerous activity.
sunsets are beautiful. 
a T-shirt may be worn under other clothes.
You are likely to find a restaurant dining area in a hotel.
Dinner is a great time for socialization.
One of the things you do when you have fun is enjoy yourself.
Steak is one cut of meat.
If you want to empty your bladder then you should pee.
Felt is a very soft kind of fabric.
elephants are animals.
If you want to paint then you should get a paintbrush and paint.
Something you find in a plane is peanuts.
An alloy is a mixture of substances.
Something you find at a soccer game is a team.
Something that might happen while fighting inflation is higher interest rates.
Data is information.
A wristwatch is a portable time piece.
a person doesn't want to ache.
Having the classes over would make you want to take final exams.
You are likely to find a channel in a television.
Most people have two ears.
going to sleep requires a stop to talking.
If you want to play a game with your friends then you should call them.
Something you find at the top of a mountain is a snow cap.
The effect of watching a film is being entertained.
Actors can act badly.
You are likely to find a lake in the mountains.
You are likely to find a landmass in a atlas.
Something you might do while losing consciousness is fall to the floor.
Men can age gracefully.
silver is for filling teeth.
A coffee table is a low table that sits in front of a sofa.
A cat can wash its paws.
Something you find in a phone book is phone numbers.
A camera is a device for recording pictures of things that you see.
a person doesn't want moldy cheese.
The Earth is mostly covered with water.
You would hurt someone else because you want to be mean.
You can use a highway to travel in a car.
batteries can power appliances.
ice cream is used for eating.
striking a match is for creating a fire.
You are likely to find a kitten in a shelter.
You are likely to find acne medication in a drug store.
golf is an expensive hobby.
Cats are very curious creatures.
Space is infinite.
a decanter is a container.
You are likely to find a container on or in the bathroom.
You are likely to find a penny in couch.
You are likely to find a TV in the living room. 
You would program a computer because you want it to perform a task.
smoking is bad for your health.
children are often messy.
The first thing you do when you go for a swim is put on your swimsuit.
Sometimes smoking causes death.
feminism is a type of political ideology.
You are likely to find a restaurant entrance in a restaurant.
If you want to buy presents then you should shop.
wax can be carved.
Hawaii is part of the United States of America.
You are likely to find cobwebs in an attic.
Hunger would make you want to buy fresh fruits and vegetables.
The sun is warm.
gerbil is a kind of rodent.
Fast food restaurants serve French fries.
a credit card is used for renting a car.
The effect of snoring is waking up others.
Enron is a kind of company.
a person doesn't want to be insulted.
a telephone kiosk is for making phone calls.
You would cool off because you want to be comfortable.
backpack is used for backpacking.
Something you find in the forest is campers.
You can use an arena to fight.
The effect of seeing a band is musical enjoyment.
Singularity is probable.
Something you need to do before you cook a meal is buy the ingredients.
You would take final exams because you want to complete a course.
a person wants a fast computer.
A tongue is covered with taste buds.
a payment counter is for transacting business.
Bats live in caves.
The first thing you do when you make a cup of tea is boil some water.
asphalt is used to pave roads.
Something you might do while planning a vacation is call a travel agent.
A hide-a-bed is a couch which can be converted into a bed.
A baseball player can hit a home run. 
You would have fun because you want to have fun. 
having fun is something you achieve and is a goal in itself.
lighting a match is for creating some light.
some shirts are made of cotton.
a lens is for magnifying an image.
a stream is a small body of flowing water.
drinking alcohol and then driving is bad.
Something that might happen when you get up early is see the dawn.
You are likely to find a ticket slot in a parking lot.
Smurfs are blue.
The last thing you do when you wash your hands is dry your hands.
If you want to strike a match then you should have it in your hand.
Something that might happen while playing a guitar is a string breaks.
Barking would make you want to walk the dog.
Something you need to do before you walk in the rain is put on a raincoat.
Something you find at a grocery store is beer.
Something you find at the dentist is a medical secretary.
Tom Cruise wears sun glasses in MI2.
Something you find at a shop is clerks.
Kittens are small cats.
a person doesn't want to become sick.
Something you find in space is quasars.
You are likely to find a human in a village.
You are likely to find a fungus in old bread.
Video is a medium which needs a team approach.
some books hide money.
a lake is made of water.
Oklahoma is a state.
going to a party is for meeting new people.
coffee comes from beans.
You would watch a TV show because you were bored.
a person doesn't want to be decapitated.
A tree can cast a shadow.
Electrons have a negative charge.
You would calculate things quickly because you want an answer.
Something that might happen while getting something is an exchange for something else.
nail clippers cut fingernails and toenails.
A tortoise can race a hare.
Students can begin a test.
an expressway is used for driving.
Something that might happen while waiting your turn is reading a magazine.
A queen is a female monarch.
Something you need to do before you play sport is learn the rules of the game.
You are likely to find a string in a guitar.
a soldier is used for killing the enemy.
You are likely to find a crab in Maryland.
You are likely to find woods in a rural area.
a person doesn't want air pollution.
You are likely to find a cow in Canada.
If you want to play poker then you should go to a casino.
A computer can sort information.
a person doesn't want to drink poison.
You can use a ball to play with the dog.
The first thing you do when you buy fresh fruits and vegetables is wash them.
A nail gun is a tool.
If you want to wait for someone then you should stay in one place.
Something you find in the space shuttle is oxygen.
You can use a basketball court to exercise.
a bass drum is for making music.
A woman can walk up the street.
a virus can make a computer malfunction.
a mini bar is for storing drinks.
a sea is a body of water.
A car can drive up the street.
a connection is used for getting a job.
Visa is a type of credit card.
You would give a gift because you want to be loved.
You can use a cold faucet to get cold water.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in a tree.
The global waste economy continues to grow .
Biscayne is a national park in Florida with aquatic and coral reefs.
If you want to have an examination then you should take a bath.
One of the things you do when you express information is write it down.
Something that might happen when you go to a play is watching actors.
Something you might do while waiting on tables is be polite.
You are likely to find a fox in New York.
a person doesn't want to be abandoned.
A seed can produce a plant.
If you want to watch a movie then you should rent a movie.
Something you find on the surface of the moon is only one golf ball.
children learn from parents.
If you want to do the housework then you should be a woman.
a luggage trolley is for carrying luggage.
A patient can battle a disease.
anger would make you want to hurt someone else.
Something you find at confession is a confessional.
Tractors are often yellow.
light is a particle.
You can use a finger to test the sharpness of a piece of metal.
Something you find at church is true believers.
You are likely to find a fitting room in a clothing store.
You are likely to find a telephone directory in an office.
If you want to love someone else then you should love yourself.
You are likely to find a computer in an office building.
A criminal can deal drugs.
a person doesn't want dandruff..
black and white are opposite colors.
a cupboard is for Storing crockery.
Something you find in a classroom is textbooks.
Deserts are usually hot and dry.
Submarines look like whales..
Lizards have four legs.
a person doesn't want to be dirty.
a captain is used for commanding a ship.
Canada is an independent country.
Something you find at an apartment is a TV. 
computers are used to learn things.
Wood is a fuel.
Buddha was enlightened.
Solids are denser than gases at atmospheric pressures.
Something that might happen while eating ice cream is brain freeze. 
horses eat plants.
an iron is used for pressing cloth.
Poland is part of Europe.
Pain would make you want to lose consciousness.
A person can ride a bike. 
A bike's sole purpose is to be ridden. 
The activity one associates with a bike is riding.
Somewhere people can be is at dinner.
You are likely to find a chapel in a hospital.
The last thing you do when you buy fresh fruits and vegetables is eat them.
dams can control rivers.
a person doesn't want a bad government.
A washing machine cleans cloths.
a person doesn't want to be a laughingstock.
washing your hands is for removing dirt.
You are likely to find a diaphragm in a body.
erasers can erase pencil markings.
Something that might happen while punishing someone is sending them to their room.
Something that might happen when you go on strike is to carry signs of protest.
The effect of making a better world is peace.
a wash cloth is for cleaning behind your ear.
Swords usually have sharp edges.
The Mission is part of San Francisco.
a hammer is for breaking things.
cookies taste good.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going for a haircut is your hair becomes shorter.
gas is short for gasoline.
The effect of diving is wetness.
North Carolina is a State.
One of the things you do when you create an idea is think.
a democrat can fear republicans.
A person doesn't want to get a disease.
If you want to run in a marathon then you should enter a marathon.
Something you might do while playing chess is under promote a pawn.
meat is for people to eat.
a trash receptacle is used for putting trash in it.
a shirt is for being dressed.
a letter is for spelling a word.
A censer is an incense burner.
A child can put her toys away.
You are likely to find a crab in the river.
Something you might do while playing chess is capture a bishop.
You would repair an umbrella because it is broken.
You would program because you want to make a program.
If you want to eat then you should put food into your mouth.
Something you find at a party is wine.
An activity a star can do is explode.
You are likely to find a toothpaste in a medicine cabinet.
a bottle of vodka is for making mixed drinks.
If you want to paint then you should get paint and brushes.
ping-pong is a very popular game in Europe. 
You are likely to find a shoe in a store.
You are likely to find a bus pass in a wallet.
listening to the radio requires hearing.
You can use a verb to denote action.
Something you find at an apartment is residents.
A vibration can produce a sound.
You are likely to find a bottle in a grocery store.
a person wants peace on earth.
jazz music often uses a saxophone.
Something that might happen while going to a play is listening.
You would add up a column of numbers because you want the sum.
Simple is beautiful.
Contemplation requires thought.
the Sun can rise in the morning.
Something you find at a store is merchandise.
You can use a parking area to park a vehicle.
You can use a lens to magnify an object.
An elephant has tusks.
going to a film is for entertainment.
Some people are friendly.
You are likely to find a human in a crowd.
a rat and a rabbit are both animals.
leaving the line is for impatient people.
Canadian hemlock is a plant.
Dying for a cause is a special thing.
Something that might happen as a consequence of obstructing justice is jail time.
birds are alive.
hunger would make you want to fish.
A male horse is a stallion.
Sometimes using a television causes eye strain.
You are likely to find a trumpet in a brass band.
Something you might do while taking the stand is tell the truth.
Something that might happen as a consequence of discovering the truth is enlightenment.
One of the things you do when you use a VCR is record a program.
playing a game with your friends is for relaxation.
going for a walk requires going outside.
a person doesn't want a dog bite.
You would surprise someone because you want to see their reaction.
You can use poison to kill somebody.
Bats are nocturnal.
Something that might happen while paying the bills is worrying.
Something you need to do before you go for a spin is get the car keys.
Your Internet has a connection.
a cruise on a modern ocean liner is a recreational activity rather than a journey to a new destination.
Something you find at an apartment is a computer.
An up quark is part of a delta0.
Something you need to do before you remember a phone number is learn about the phone number.
Something you need to do before you institute a civil action is contact a lawyer.
You would read a book because you want to know.
Israel is part of the Middle East.
You are likely to find a main entrance in any public building.
snowing is a kind of weather.
Bacteria is one cause of illness.
You can use a voice to shout.
The last thing you do when you cool off is relax.
a rule can be broken.
Plants don't have legs.
a clock is used for keeping time.
Salt is used to soften water.
The effect of killing people is murder.
Sometimes getting a job causes stress.
receiving a degree requires a certain number of course credits.
Something you might do while going to the store is show your membership card.
You would meet girls because you want to impress your dog.
You can use a revolver to shoot bullets.
A gardener can plant a seed.
meditation can quiet the mind.
Something you find in a closet is a broom.
Sherlock Holmes is a detective.
Something that might happen while dying is remembering your life.
football is a physical activity.
You are likely to find a queen in England.
thanking someone is for showing your gratitude.
Something you might do while playing a game is cheat.
If you want to purchase a cellular phone then you should go to a store.
You are likely to find an explosive in a construction site.
listening to the radio is for relaxation.
People have emotions.
Leather is the hide of cows.
Something you might do while climbing a mountain is stop to rest.
Something that might happen while having a shower is getting clean.
You are likely to find a penny in a piggy bank.
You are likely to find an acrylic in a painting.
Something you find on the floor is your feet.
complaining about the state of the world requires something to complain about.
You are likely to find a reception desk in an office.
One of the things you do when you buy products is paying for them.
gas is for heating.
Something you find on the fridge is children's artwork.
Something that might happen when you fish is you catch something.
An eye is an optical sensor for living beings.
a mystery would make you want to determine the truth.
If you want to write a program then you should learn a programming language.
You are likely to find toes in a sock.
The typewriter is now obsolete.
Something that might happen as a consequence of diminishing your own hunger is satisfaction.
The effect of watching a movie is entertainment.
A bear can mother a cub.
a saucepan is a small pan for heating food on the stove.
You can use a factory to manufacture things.
One type of medical doctor is a dentist.
A farmer can raise crops.
Cowboy Bebop is a cyberpunk anime series.
artist can paint a painting.
stilgar is a character in a novel called dune.
a check book is used for paying money.
A banjo is a stringed instrument. 
You would act in a play because you want to express yourself.
Gold is a good conductor of electricity.
a dark place is a place with little light.
If you want to get warm then you should build a fire.
Money is an impressionist painter.
a person doesn't want to become blind.
Imaginary Homelands is a collection of essays and criticism.
Getting hit hurts.
Judo is a martial art.
The effect of standing in a queue is wasting time.
a fiddle is another name for a violin.
Something that might happen while taking the stand is taking an oath.
H2O2 is a natural metabolite of many organisms.
Something that might happen when you score a home run is people get excited.
A manila folder is a container for paper.
If you want to play a game of chess then you should find a partner.
You are likely to find a choker in a jewelry store.
You are likely to find a mouse in an old barn.
storytelling is used for learning.
printing on the printer requires ink and paper.
Email can convey messages to people.
A question wants an answer.
lager is a light beer.
The South Pole is in Antarctica.
You are likely to find water in a swamp.
a toothpick is for removing debris from between teeth.
A biped is a two-legged animal.
You would play a game of chess because you are competitive.
Jars are often made of glass.
Somewhere an automobile can be is on an exit ramp.
You are likely to find white-out on or in an office.
a pond contains water.
Thirst would make you want to drink.
If you want to make bread then you should find a recipe.
gerbils can jump.
irons can press pants.
You are likely to find a bed in a dwelling.
You are likely to find a body in your bed.
the enemy is generally dangerous.
The speed of light is very fast.
Submarines can sail under water.
You are likely to find a concert hall in a city.
You are likely to find black holes in outer space.
running twenty six miles requires great endurance.
Tea is hot.
You are likely to find a movie theater in town.
Something you find in a pantry is cereals.
One of the things you do when you wait for someone is get bored.
high-heeled pump is a kind of shoe.
a collector can trade baseball cards.
The death of a loved one would make you want to cry.
You are likely to find a store refrigerator in a deli.
North Carolina is part of the United States of America.
Stamps are used to mail letters.
Iowa is part of the United States of America.
a person doesn't want to be teased.
Black holes spin.
One of the things you do when you listen to music is turn on the radio.
You can use a passageway to walk along.
Sometimes visiting other countries causes anger.
Mistakes can be annoying.
an interstate highway is used for transportation.
winter and summer are seasons that never occur at the same time in one place.
If you want to learn then you should pay attention.
Something you need to do before you drive to work is get dressed.
If you want to go somewhere then you should read a map.
The last thing you do when you pass a class is celebrate.
a cinema is used for entertainment.
Something you find on the porch is a patio table.
a triangle is a figure.
You are likely to find a fireplace in a home.
A soldier can storm a beach.
You are likely to find a paper menu in a cheap restaurant.
You would take an exam because you want to pass.
all mothers are women.
You are likely to find a front courtyard in the suburbs.
The first thing you do when you go to a film is buy a ticket.
lists are often generated.
Palm trees grow in tropical areas.
You are likely to find a liquor glass in a pub.
You are likely to find a potato in the produce department of a grocery store.
The effect of starting a fire is heat.
a sailor wants wind.
Sunsets are very romantic.
You are likely to find a couch in a living room. 
You are likely to find a calculator in a school.
Something you find in the ocean is sea shells.
If you want to create art then you should have talent.
People wear clothes to keep warm.
Protons and neutrons make up the atomic nucleus.
Jogging is usually good for your health.
The first thing you do when you climb a mountain is plan a route down.
thinking is for learning.
Some people can dance the waltz.
Something you find at a fair is people.
Something that might happen as a consequence of getting wet is you get a chill.
You are likely to find a checkbook in a pocket.
Servants can please masters.
You are likely to find a master bedroom in a big house.
Traveling would make you want to learn about the world.
You can use a theater to have a war.
a wedding ring is used for marrying.
an article in a magazine is used for telling a story.
a refrigerator freezer is for storing food for long periods.
a tooth is used for eating.
Facts can be independently confirmed.
Something that might happen while pretending is you fool yourself.
You are likely to find a piece of paper in an office.
Something you find at the supermarket is discarded shopping lists.
You are likely to find a lens in a microscope.
resting is for dreams.
You are likely to find a mother in a family.
Something you find at a motel is little coffee makers in the rooms.
You would rest because you want to sleep.
Something you find at a military base is people.
a fast food restaurant is for buying food.
Newspaper should be recycled.
Something that might happen when you pass a class is graduation.
a computer is used for writing.
You can use carpeting to cover ugly flooring.
Vacuums are used for cleaning floors.
An engineer can bridge a river.
Sadness is an emotion.
painting is for creating a work of art.
Wheat is a grass.
The last thing you do when you go to work is leave the house.
You can use a calculator to do mathematics.
Something that might happen when you climb a mountain is nature.
the sea is wet.
You are likely to find a highway in an atlas.
A globe is a small representation of the earth.
Guns is the plural of gun.
Something that might happen when you punish someone is you feel bad.
Something you find in the loft is dust.
Sometimes having a rest causes refreshment.
The first thing you do when you cook is wash your hands.
Something you find in space is a space shuttle.
You are likely to find a snake in an aquarium.
Something that might happen when you talk to someone is you get to know about him.
a person wants music.
both cans and cardboard can be recycled.
You are likely to find a beaver in a lodge.
If you want to watch a television show then you should own a television set.
Needing groceries would make you want to go to market.
You would conquer a nation because you want to rule.
You are likely to find a bus in a school.
The heart is part of the body.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going public is panic.
You are likely to find a wing in a large building.
People sing during an opera.
Something you might do while seeing your favorite show is eat a sandwich.
You are likely to find a human in a submarine.
reading a letter is for obtaining information.
Something that might happen while studying for a subject is learning something.
Something that might happen while paying by credit card is signing a receipt.
a general can lead troops.
pretending is for deception.
Something you find at a church is faith.
Something you find at the opera is seats.
a cell phone is a telephone.
cats are hairy.
The ocean is vast.
having a rest requires stopping work.
a swimming pool is for having a pool party.
cats play.
Something that might happen as a consequence of lying is being found out.
If you want to do housework then you should get your tools.
The last thing you do when you take a course is take an exam. 
One of the things you do when you think something is funny is laugh.
being in charge of a project requires good leadership skills.
the child can add two numbers.
a person wants to create things.
The effect of remembering is knowledge.
Something you find behind the refrigerator is mold.
a calculator is used for adding numbers.
Sometimes sending a criminal to prison causes prisons to be overcrowded.
Something that might happen when you have a bath is drowning.
You are likely to find cotton in a cotton field.
You are likely to find a skin care article in a magazine.
plants contain liquids.
If you want to go to the hairdresser then you should have hair.
Something that might happen when you cut your hair is your hair gets shorter.
The effect of obstructing justice is bad.
Detectives use magnifying glasses.
a remote control is used to change the channel.
a person wants honor.
Something you might do while playing football is kick a ball.
Aliens are all around us.
Something that might happen while traveling is meeting new people.
a runner can get tired.
Sometimes taking a course causes stress.
sapphire is a stone.
shirts are a type of clothing.
Some people do not like to play chess.
The effect of cooking a meal is dinner.
eating an apple is for satisfying hunger.
the moon goes around Earth.
Something you find in a sock is a foot.
The effect of having a shower is that you become clean.
Zeus is the ruler of the Greek pantheon.
Something you find in the jar is preserves.
A tick is an arachnid and is related to spiders.
If you want to eat a hamburger then you should go to a fast food restaurant.
carpeting is used for home decoration.
a saxophone is not a kind of piano.
You are likely to find a key case in a pocket.
One of the things you do when you tell a story is talk.
loving flowers would make you want to weed the garden.
If you want to read a book then you should have light.
Something that might happen as a consequence of hearing music is relaxing.
Something you find at a street corner is a crosswalk.
people go jogging to get fit.
The effect of taking care of proposals is winning bids.
You are likely to find a mouse in a cornfield.
a person wants nice jewelry.
Something that might happen as a consequence of snoring is death.
Something you find in a garage is antifreeze.
Something you find in the cellar is mold.
Something that might happen while playing hockey is injury.
birds are not mammals.
You can use a den to relax.
A book bound in leather might be expensive.
telling a story requires time.
electric piano is a kind of piano.
a billion dollars is a very big expenditure.
You would write a term paper because it was your assignment.
Committees are an artifact of modern civilization.
An activity a mammal can do is mate.
Something you find at the library is shelves of books and magazines.
If you want to climb then you should get a rope.
Some people have intellectual personalities.
Something you find on the street is a parked car.
Chicken soup is the common remedy for the common cold .
The winter is the coldest part of the year.
a nightclub is for parties.
You can use a staircase to climb.
You are likely to find a folding shower door in a bathroom.
You would swim because it's fun.
Sometimes jumping out of a window causes injury.
Winners are happy.
Something you find at a grocery store is fresh fruit and vegetables.
a person doesn't want to see a loved one die.
The first thing you do when you type is put your fingers on the keyboard.
Tern is a bird.
People wear suits.
Some people have stuffy personalities.
Something that might happen when you debate politics is get into an argument.
a dictator can govern a country.
Something you might do while serving customers is be polite.
free time would make you want to surf the net.
a congressman is a member of congress.
If you want to light a match then you should strike it on a rough surface.
You are likely to find a calendar pad in an office supply store.
Something that might happen when you work the box office is you sell movie tickets.
Wombats are marsupials.
a liquor glass is for holding liquid.
Something you might do while fixing a computer is open up the case.
a zircon is a precious stone.
a light bulb is used for illumination.
garbage is used for recycling.
a ruby is a jewel.
Something that might happen as a consequence of convicting a suspect for a crime is he gets punished.
You can use a runway to land the Space Shuttle.
Something you find at a car show is a display of different kinds of cars.
The effect of sitting on a chair is taking the load off your feet.
Something you might do while grooming is comb your hair.
A baby can sleep in a crib.
Something you find at a shop is a cash register.
memorizing requires concentration.
You can use a graphite pencil to write.
The first thing you do when you read to your children is choose a story.
Something you find at the market is customers.
Something you find in a cabinet is cleaning supplies.
A general can lead an army.
The first thing you do when you have a party is invite people.
a large container is for holding things.
hearing testimony requires careful listening.
a person wants an itch to be scratched.
a society is a group of people.
Something you might do while having an asthma attack is use an inhaler.
You are likely to find a neck in a bottle.
If you want to have a party then you should call your friends.
Something you find in the purse is dollars.
You would test the car because you want to have fun.
attending school requires reliable transportation.
Something you find on the subway is hand straps. 
You would have a physical exam because you're sick.
Something you find in orbit is the Space Shuttle.
Something you might do while hearing testimony is writing it down.
seeing a movie requires having eyes.
Something that might happen while fighting war is bombs are dropped.
a flat is used for living in.
playing a game with your friends is for recreation.
Something you find at a fraternity house is men.
The last thing you do when you get some money from someone is thank them.
You are likely to find a clothing store in a strip mall.
food in a school cafeteria is often bad.
One of the things you do when you travel is drive a car.
Wanting to learn would make you want to attend class.
Oktoberfest is a holiday.
Something that might happen when you walk around a lake is you see ducks.
You are likely to find a highlighter pen in a desk drawer.
The effect of washing clothes is cleaner clothes.
Something that might happen while driving is day dreaming.
One of the things you do when you read a letter is hold the letter in your hands.
A coin purse holds coins.
a sign is for directions.
Anteaters are mammals.
Something you might do while taking a shower is wash your body.
going on a vacation is for fun.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying fresh fruits and vegetables is you eat well.
You would return to work because you want to earn money.
Love would make you want to get something.
DNA can be used to place someone at the scene of a crime.
Trees produce oxygen.
Something you find in a casino is gambling.
Something that might happen when you hike is sweat.
The first thing you do when you punch someone is make a fist.
exercise is good for your body.
A percussion instrument is a music instrument.
Something you might do while paying cash is take out your wallet.
Children need time to wonder about things.
If you want to relax then you should listen to some music.
You are likely to find a living room in a home.
Something you might do while writing a story is use a word processor.
a xylophone is a type of percussion instrument.
the English Channel is for swimming across.
Car seats are adjustable.
playing a harp is for having fun.
Something you need to do before you sign a contract is read it.
A mother can be holding her child.
Something you find at a hockey game is a spectator.
Some people are criminals.
Something you find on the porch is a newspaper.
If you want to get some physical activity then you should go outside.
People can eat pizza.
A soldier can fire a gun.
Something you find in a bus is students.
A teacher can time a test.
Shark bones are made of cartilage.
A stop sign is red and white.
If you want to eat healthily then you should grow an organic garden.
Sometimes driving to work causes stress.
You are likely to find a kite in the sky.
heat would make you want to swim.
Something you find in the cupboard is a gravy boat.
You would howl with laughter because something was funny.
cutting your hair requires scissors.
a squash court is for Exercise.
If you want to compute a sum then you should add.
Something you find at an opera is a diva.
Something you find at the doctor is a doctor.
Something you find at a soccer game is fans.
Something you find at the office is a filing cabinet.
Cords are used to plug something in.
Some people are blind.
a person wants a new computer.
You are likely to find a parking lot in an airport.
Something that might happen while doing a crossword puzzle is consulting a dictionary.
You are likely to find a small dog in the city.
a towel rack holds towels.
The last thing you do when you see exhibits is leave the museum.
Something you find on a desk is a marker.
You are likely to find a traffic artery in the city.
Something that might happen while going to school is reading a book.
Something that might happen while playing poker is playing with your chips.
using a VCR is for recording a television show.
god has a strange sense of humor.
You are likely to find a toll road in the United States.
Something you find at a home is a child.
Something that might happen while passing a class is taking exams.
a person doesn't want to slip and fall.
If you want to hike then you should go outdoors.
You can use a wallet to hold credit cards.
A college is a place of learning.
the Internet can be used to look up information.
Something that might happen as a consequence of starting a family is having children.
If you want to eat lunch then you should make a sandwich.
Crabs are seafood.
Something you need to do before you ride a bicycle is get on it.
Something that might happen while breathing some fresh air is feeling good.
A student can complete an assignment.
You are likely to find a lemur in the trees of Madagascar.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing football is you score a touchdown.
Sometimes climbing a mountain causes fear.
resting is for being refreshed.
a flask is used for drinking.
Something that might happen while writing a poem is a rhyme.
going to bed is for going to sleep.
Maps contain legends. 
Something that might happen as a consequence of waiting your turn is getting to the front of the line.
designing software is for business accounting.
Something that might happen as a consequence of living is having children.
A city has lots of people living and working in it.
If you want to eat dinner then you should set the table.
Bands sometimes play outside.
Something you might do while creating something to help other people is dig a well.
Sneezing is involuntary.
Something you might do while climbing is use a rope.
People eat cows.
Something that might happen when you hear testimony is you don't believe it.
Something you need to do before you go to sleep is go to bed.
You would go to a film because you want to see it.
a telephone can ring loudly.
Something you find in the countryside is bees.
Something you find at the office is co-workers.
Something that might happen when you play soccer is you chase a ball.
Something you might do while eating in a fast food restaurant is eat standing up.
Something you might do while playing ball is break a window.
You are likely to find a blowfish in a fish market.
a person doesn't want to die a painful death.
houses can weather a storm.
Something that might happen while buying something for a loved one is you get it on sale.
Forceps are like a pair of tongs.
You are likely to find flowers in a flower garden.
Glasses are used to hold drinks.
dreaming requires deep sleep.
You would take an oath because you want to be believed.
You would paint a picture because you want to create.
a person can promise to do something.
Something that might happen while socializing is you get tired.
The air is clear.
A label maker makes labels.
a person wants a tan.
Something that might happen while fishing is you lose your hook.
Something you might do while using a computer is turn it off.
needing a new book would make you want to go to the store.
a barn is used for storing farming equipment.
energy would make you want to wrestle.
water can short a circuit.
lying requires a plan.
You are likely to find a hardware store in a town.
bringing in a verdict is for juries to do.
Something you might do while surprising someone is hide.
being silly would make you want to act in a play.
Chickens do not have lips.
Sometimes visiting a museum causes appreciation.
gas is for cooking.
studying for a subject requires time and focus.
going to a restaurant is for having social interaction.
Something that might happen as a consequence of starting a fire is ashes.
going to the mall is for shopping.
signing a contract requires being of age.
stopping standing in it requires moving.
passing a class requires very little effort.
a fire extinguisher is for extinguishing fires.
Something that might happen while watching a TV show is commercials are shown.
Something you need to do before you design software is learn a programming language.
Something you might do while running twenty six miles is choke.
Something that might happen as a consequence of soaking in a hot spring is burns.
Something that might happen while going on the stage is you fall on your face.
Dogs can hear whistling.
Sometimes improving yourself causes resentment.
The effect of getting in line is waiting for a turn.
illuminating the darkness would make you want to light a fire.
You would go to bed because you are tired.
You would ski because you want to have fun in the snow.
opening a business requires money.
Something you might do while writing a poem is relax.
frozen water is called ice.
You would serve customers because you want to help.
People go to restaurants to eat food.
having a heart attack requires poor health.
You are likely to find a monkey in a playful mood.
Performing surgery is an activity.
Something that might happen when you visit a museum is you see dinosaur bones.
A mallet is a type of hammer.
You would see artifacts because you want to learn.
You are likely to find a first class airplane seat in the front of a plane.
having an epileptic fit requires irregular brain activity.
Something you find at a war is massacred bodies.
Something that might happen when you sit down is you drink.
writing a term paper requires focused concentration.
a table is for sitting at.
checking vital signs requires training.
reading to your children is for their enjoyment.
Sometimes washing your clothes causes your clothes to become clean.
You are likely to find a wave clip in a woman's hair.
Something that might happen while taking an oath is you speak.
Something you find in a backpack is rope.
addiction would make you want to go on the Internet. 
faucet is the American word for a tap.
Something you might do while going to a movie is cry.
You are likely to find a shower switch in a campground.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing the violin is you hear violin music.
Something you find in a jar is coins.
Something that might happen while winning a baseball game is you get more runs.
If you want to clean your clothes then you should use detergent.
being nuts would make you want to run twenty-six miles.
Something you might do while having a physical exam is visiting a doctor.
Something that might happen when you buy food is you carry it into the house.
You are likely to find a double knit in a clothing store.
talent would make you want to entertain people.
The last thing you do when you get in line is wait.
You would gather energy for tomorrow because you want to perform well.
You are likely to find a monkey in the African jungle.
wanting a son would make you want to reproduce.
elephants never forget.
disgust would make you want to leave the line.
Ignorance would make you want to find information.
Something that might happen when you have a heart attack is you go to the hospital for tests.
Something you find at a synagogue is a Jew.
surprising someone is for pleasing them.
If you want to answer questions then you should learn answers.
Sometimes shopping causes panic.
Something that might happen when you eat vegetables is you have less vegetables.
You are likely to find an apple tree in Maryland.
attending class is for students.
Sometimes playing the violin causes feelings.
corn is a starchy vegetable.
a date would make you want to go for a haircut.
a student can journey abroad.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking care of proposals is you make money.
You are likely to find a symphony hall in a large city.
Something that might happen as a consequence of building a cathedral is work.
You would attend a lecture because you want knowledge.
Something that might happen while living a life is sorrow.
A Trojan horse is a program that damages or compromises the security of a computer.
Something you might do while bathing is use bubbles.
Something you might do while mailing a letter is affix a stamp.
Uttering a cry is making a sound.
Something you need to do before you punch someone is draw back your fist.
The effect of playing lacrosse is fun.
a delicatessen is for eating lunch.
going to the store requires cash.
Sometimes snoring causes you to wake your spouse.
Something that might happen while buying a shirt is you have fun.
a county is in a state.
Something that might happen when you view a film at home is you get tired.
One of the things you do when you drink alcohol is lose your inhibitions.
Something that might happen when you play cards is you lose.
Sometimes traveling causes fatigue.
You can use a projectile ball to throw.
Something that might happen while watching a TV show is you have fun.
One of the things you do when you kiss is embrace.
You would go somewhere because you want to have fun.
Something you might do while going to market is drive a car.
Something you might do while taking a shower is singing.
Something you might do while meeting people is look them in the eye.
loneliness would make you want to socialize.
One of the things you do when you go for a haircut is pay the hairdresser.
a person wants electricity.
the Statue of Liberty is tall.
You are likely to find a lizard in an arid region.
One of the things you do when you program is copy good code from other places.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in a cliff.
If you want to please your parents then you should love them.
Perennials are plants.
repairing an umbrella is for staying dry.
going to bed is for reading.
You can use a grenade to do damage.
You would change your appearance because you do not want to be recognized.
a school is used for teaching the students.
paying the bills is for keeping the utilities on.
Prisons are used to punish criminals.
a triangle is for geometry.
If you want to get a job then you should look for a job.
Something you find in a building is a fire alarm.
If you want to take a bath then you should fill the bathtub.
A school of fish can number in the thousands.
eating breakfast in bed is for special occasions.
Wool comes from sheep.
a balloon is used for birthday parties.
A lizard can sun itself.
Something that might happen while cooling off is taking a shower.
You are likely to find ideas in a thesis.
You can use a knife to cut string.
You are likely to find steel in buildings.
a shower door is used for privacy.
An activity photographers can do is take a picture.
If you want to score a homer then you should swing.
Something you might do while eating breakfast in bed is watching television.
If you want to remember then you should concentrate.
playing a game is for winning.
You are likely to find a dining room in a restaurant.
You can use a bone to support something.
Something that might happen as a consequence of remembering a phone number is saving time.
If you want to go to get a haircut then you should go to a barbershop.
Something you find at a party is alcohol.
Grasshoppers are insects.
doing some exercises requires movement.
The river can branch into many streams in the delta.
You are likely to find a potato in a sack.
You are likely to find a key in a key chain. 
You are likely to find a mouse in a cage.
You can use an Indian restaurant to eat dinner.
Something you need to do before you take the car for a drive is load the trunk.
Something you find on a road is automobiles.
The effect of determining the truth is a new basis for action.
working in the garden would make you want to become more clean.
One of the things you do when you have a heart attack is feel pain.
a person wants time to rest.
Something you find at a concert is a piano.
Sometimes setting a cup on a table causes a ring.
If you want to snore then you should sleep with your mouth open.
Something that might happen as a consequence of studying is you pass a test.
Sometimes purchasing a cellular phone causes confusion.
You are likely to find a hammer in a hardware store.
the ocean is full of water.
Cooks can separate eggs.
a couch is for relaxing.
Something you find at a fast-food restaurant is junk food.
Sometimes skating causes tired ankles.
Dogs can hunt foxes.
Tulips come in many colors.
A wall can separate rooms from each other.
Something that might happen while reading is you finish the book.
You would spend money because you need the necessities.
Something you find at fairgrounds is a carnival.
a person wants other people's company.
Something that might happen while going for a jog is you bring the dog.
Sometimes stopping your bicycle causes you to fall off.
A tape recorder can record a conversation.
improving your image is for Getting a job.
Something that might happen as a consequence of growing vegetables is you have fresh peas.
taking the bus is for Getting somewhere.
You are likely to find a fungus in a locker room.
A pulley is a simple machine.
You can use a wallet to store credit cards.
The first thing you do when you do housework is get out the cleaning supplies.
You can use a poem to tell a story.
Something you might do while playing is throw a ball.
You would open a business because you want to earn a living.
Something that might happen when you have a shower is running out of hot water.
a penny is used for making change.
Something you might do while mailing a letter is put a stamp on the letter.
Something that might happen when you have food is you cook it.
Something that might happen while studying for a subject is you forget.
Nail clippers cut toenails.
A busboy can clear a table.
Something that might happen when you die is your mom cries.
Sometimes diminishing your own hunger causes overeating.
Something you find in a backpack is a pencil.
A tree can branch into leaves.
An activity a baker can do is make bread.
a floor is for standing on.
finches are animals.
Something you find at the airport is an air traffic control tower.
You are likely to find a stop in an organ.
A President can sign a Bill.
You are likely to find a kitchen table in a furniture store.
Something you find in a cabinet is a pill.
You would tape a television show because you want to see it again.
A repairman can be servicing an appliance.
standing up requires effort.
You are likely to find a puck in a hockey rink.
an usher can seat wedding guests.
You are likely to find a landmass in the ocean.
employees work in a company.
Something you find at a funeral is a grave.
Most Dogs Hate Cats.
Free tickets would make you want to attend a rock concert.
You are likely to find a yard in a house.
If you want to go fishing then you should dig some worms.
If you want to buy a shirt then you should try it on.
Something you find on the moon is a moon rock.
Sugar is a chemical.
If you want to maintain good health then you should eat your vegetables.
telling a story is for amusement.
If you want to work then you should concentrate.
Something you might do while selling your new book is getting money.
If you want to mail a letter then you should go to the post office.
Something you might do while standing in line is balance your checkbook.
a hockey puck is round and flat.
You are likely to find a cloth in a kitchen.
driving a car requires tires.
fish do not live on land.
The first thing you do when you play Frisbee is find someone to play with.
Sometimes snoring causes noise.
Something you might do while winning a baseball game is jump with joy.
a foot is a measurement.
You can use a graphite pencil to draw.
Something you find at a beach is footprints.
a person wants true love.
You are likely to find a cat in an alley.
making friends requires talking.
Sometimes having an examination causes problems to be found.
If you want to buy presents for others then you should go shopping.
sailboats rely on wind to move them.
wanting to be your own boss would make you want to open a business.
a man can shine his shoes.
a person doesn't want to trip.
buying a beer is for getting drunk.
communicating with your dogs would make you want to have a conversation.
Something that might happen when you attend class is you gain knowledge.
You are likely to find a fox in the wilderness.
Something that might happen when you dance is you trip.
Something that might happen when you smoke is you light a match.
ice is solid.
castanets are for dancing.
A conductor uses a baton to conduct the orchestra.
Something that might happen while standing in line is you think about other things.
If you want to get fit then you should go to the gym.
Hummingbirds beat their wings quickly.
improving your image requires having a good dog.
a contralto is used for singing.
a wheel is used for rolling.
spending time with the dogs would make you want to watch a film.
If you want to get in line then you should walk to it.
You are likely to find a ferret in a pet shop. 
Something you find on television is a sporting event.
A creek is a small river.
Something you might do while cleaning your clothes is adding soap.
You would have lunch because you want to take a break from work.
A person can visit a friend.
Sometimes spending money causes you to buy dogs.
If you want to take final exams then you should take a class.
water pours from a spout.
The first thing you do when you have a physical examination is go to the doctors' office.
Something you find in a jar is soup.
Something that might happen as a consequence of writing is a cramped hand.
Boots are worn on your feet.
Something that might happen as a consequence of eating breakfast in bed is you get crumbs on the sheets.
Something that might happen while taking a bath is you really relax.
You are likely to find a fungus in a field.
a monument can be a statue.
A boy is a child.
Earrings are a type of jewelry.
You are likely to find a rosebush in a flower bed.
Anyone can save money.
a free afternoon would make you want to go to a baseball game.
Something you find at a water fountain is thirsty people.
People wear shoes to protect their feet.
pets are domesticated animals.
time would make you want to surf the web.
If you want to sing then you should know a song.
People study to learn.
The first thing you do when you work is check email.
proposing to a woman requires sincerity.
a balloon is used for opening a clogged artery.
a job interview would make you want to go for a haircut.
A diamond is a precious stone.
You are likely to find a fungus in a shoe.
You would run in a marathon because you like to exercise.
Something that might happen when you paint is you get a new color.
a harmonica is used for playing music.
a ranch house is used for people to live in.
If you want to sit down then you should have a chair.
Something you might do while punishing someone is yell at them.
the brakes can slow the car.
You are likely to find a main artery in an organism with a heart.
One of the things you do when you sleep at night is get in bed.
You would sate your hunger because you want food.
You are likely to find a microphone boom in a television studio.
If you want to listen then you should be quiet.
Something you might do while chatting with friends is talk about a movie.
taking in a film requires being awake.
the Buddha can show the dharma.
a watch is for measuring time.
taking a break requires stopping the current activity.
a tape dispenser is for holding a roll of tape.
Something you might do while remembering is closing your eyes.
A spider weaves a web.
If you want to diminish your own hunger then you should find food.
Something that might happen while riding a bicycle is you use your brakes.
You are likely to find a house in a street.
new soap would make you want to have a bath.
You are likely to find a marmot in Vancouver island.
going to work is for supporting your family.
If you want to win a baseball game then you should practice playing baseball.
a banana is a fruit.
Sometimes washing clothes causes them to shrink.
The effect of buying a hamburger is loss of money.
some plants can live underwater.
You can use an umbrella to keep yourself dry.
Something you might do while soaking in a hot spring is nap.
The effect of getting in shape is losing weight.
television is entertainment.
You are likely to find a tab in a bar.
You would open a business because you want to earn money.
a person can board a ship.
Something that might happen while finding a lost item is retracing your steps.
The hypothalamus is part of the brain.
The last thing you do when you get drunk is pass out.
people eat fruit around the globe.
A squirrel can gather acorns.
having a bath requires warm water.
You are likely to find a Chinese restaurant in new York.
Something that might happen when you watch a television show is laughing.
Something that might happen when you do some exercises is you lose weight.
Something that might happen as a consequence of waiting for someone is impatience.
Collard greens are vegetables.
Something that might happen while going to bed is You lie down.
a person doesn't want to be executed.
painting a picture is for having fun.
Something that might happen while committing to memory is you remember.
Something you find in a backpack is school books.
Something that might happen when you fix a computer is you defrag.
If you want to play then you should find a playmate.
You are likely to find a stick of butter in a refrigerator.
If you want to chew your food then you should bite down.
writing a report would make you want to express information.
You are likely to find a large container in a supermarket.
Something you find on the subway is a track.
English is a human language.
The effect of chopping firewood is thirst.
Somewhere a musician can be is on stage.
You are likely to find a bone in the human body.
a wooden rod is used for a walking stick.
Something you might do while getting a job is give your social security number.
You are likely to find a statue in a church.
people can enter buildings.
memorizing requires focused concentration.
You are likely to find a linen chest in a closet.
Two halves make a whole.
Guns are used to hunt animals.
The effect of getting drunk is the inability to drive safely.
If you want to punch someone then you should hit them.
The first thing you do when you watch TV is turn it on.
Something you might do while adding up a column of numbers is make an error.
a school cafeteria is for feeding school children.
You would impanel a jury because you want to have a trial by jury.
a nail can nail things to other things.
Something you might do while taking an examination is chew on a pencil.
Something that might happen while being involved in an accident is you bump your head.
Bikes are very fun.
going to a concert is for doing something with friends.
You would ride a horse because you like horses.
repairing an umbrella requires an umbrella patch kit.
flying a kite is for relaxing.
The first thing you do when you read a book is open the cover.
You are likely to find blanketing in a linen closet.
Sometimes living causes happiness.
Something you find on the beach is dead fish.
Something that might happen when you program is you get frustrated.
Muscles are in human bodies.
a transit ticket is for a subway ride.
If you want to drill a hole then you should have a drill bit.
You would write a poem because you want to express your feelings.
having money and a need would make you want to buy products.
You are likely to find a cold faucet in the bathtub.
The eight ball is a symbol for gambling.
You would play the violin because you want to learn to play.
If you want to go to school then you should get on the school bus.
You would dream because you want to sleep well.
Something that might happen while recording something is feedback.
Russian is a human language.
The last thing you do when you sleep at night is close your eyes.
Something you might do while building a cathedral is get blueprints.
energy would make you want to play sports.
people can shake hands.
Most men shave themselves.
You are likely to find a sloth in a country.
time would make you want to go to a performance.
You are likely to find a service counter in a store.
If you want to conduct a trial then you should become a judge.
running after the ball requires agility.
getting some money from someone is for collecting a debt.
Hebrew is a human language.
You can use chopsticks to eat Chinese food.
Something you might do while lying is fall asleep.
An elementary school is a type of school.
A horseshoe is a sign of good luck.
You are likely to find a fungus in a dead tree.
You would flirt because you want to feel good.
You are likely to find a garden hose in your backyard.
Families are the glue which holds society together.
Denmark is a country.
ice would make you want to play hockey.
Viruses can attack our immune system.
The sun is a major heat source.
Something you might do while playing ball is you have fun.
Something you find in the universe is black matter.
You are likely to find a mast in a ship.
Something you find at the farmer's market is zucchini.
a person doesn't want to not see clearly.
Something that might happen while buying a house is you get a loan.
An important principle of friendship is to treat the other with respect.
apple pie is delicious.
You are likely to find a blowfish in a Japanese sushi restaurant.
You are likely to find a hair clip in a drug store.
skiing is for fun.
You are likely to find lava in a volcano.
football is one type of game.
You are likely to find a carrier bag in an airport.
a person wants justice.
Artichokes are a kind of vegetable.
One of the things you do when you wait for someone is check your breathing.
You are likely to find a small dog in an old lady's apartment.
Sometimes killing someone causes you to be arrested.
You are likely to find lodging in a motel.
One of the things you do when you wait for someone is smoke.
A celebrity can sign an autograph.
One of the things you do when you go for a haircut is sit down.
A person has four grandparents.
Propellerheads is a band.
Sometimes riding a bike causes you to get somewhere.
Something you might do while printing on the printer is choose options.
a kitchen is for storing food.
baggage is used for travel.
A vacuum can clean the carpet.
Bridges go over water.
The last thing you do when you perform is take a bow.
an adhesive bandage is used for a cut.
You are likely to find a hair salon in town.
You would eat vegetables because they are good for you.
Something that might happen as a consequence of hearing testimony is changing your mind.
The effect of obstructing justice is going to jail.
Something you find under a tree is a dead leaf.
lying is for hiding the truth.
a pill is used for headaches.
Something you find at a store is beer.
You would stop your car because you want to avoid hitting something.
coke is a beverage.
taking a phone call is for talking.
water can freeze.
football is a contact sport.
visiting a museum requires respect.
a cinema is used for showing movies.
If you want to enjoy a film then you should buy popcorn.
the Eiffel tower is in Paris.
Vulture is a bird.
Eels live in water.
You are likely to find a cereal bowl in the kitchen.
You are likely to find a notebook in a classroom.
a person doesn't want to stub their toes.
An ox can pull a cart.
advancing into battle requires courage.
A toilet seat needs to be cleaned often.
Sometimes enjoying a film causes you to buy the DVD. 
taking the car for a drive requires the car to have gas in it.
You are likely to find a mini mall in a town.
a dandelion is a flower.
You are likely to find an airline seat in an airplane.
a fan is a machine.
A person can wave at another person.
You are likely to find a study in a large house.
Something you find at a rest area is rest rooms.
Oil doesn't mix with water.
Something you find in the oven is an apple pie.
a person doesn't want bad feelings.
You can use a writing instrument to scribble.
Doctors' offices have waiting rooms.
drinking a lot of liquid would make you want to urinate.
A mutt is a dog that is a mixture of several breeds.
Something you find on the surface of the earth is air.
You are likely to find a symphony hall in a city.
fruit contains natural sugar.
Something you might do while cutting your hair is get hair on the floor.
Something you find in a jar is baby foods.
An usher can seat a patron.
A catwalk is a narrow walkway.
a person can return a book to a library.
Tornadoes is the plural form of tornado.
Toilet paper comes in rolls.
Something you find on the surface of the moon is moon rocks.
water is often frozen.
A father is part of a family.
Something you might do while moving a car is start the engine.
a person wants to be perfect.
Something that might happen when you meet girls is show off.
A tooth is part of a mouth.
The effect of watching TV is entertainment.
many people live in houses.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going on the stage is being nervous.
If you want to strike a match then you should open the matchbox.
some books are very old.
People can be killed.
If you want to sit down then you should find a place to sit.
Something that might happen as a consequence of getting drunk is death.
Sometimes jumping rope causes you to trip.
Sometimes handling proposals causes stress.
making a phone call is for communicating with someone.
playing the violin is for making music.
The sky is dark.
seeing old things requires eyesight.
Something you find at the supermarket is a checkout stand.
You are likely to find a cup of coffee in a cafe.
Something you find in a suitcase is pants.
One of the things you do when you chop firewood is get out the axe.
A chef can cook a gourmet meal.
beer sells well.
Something that might happen when you run after the ball is getting hit by a car.
Sometimes proving your physical endurance causes sore muscles.
You are likely to find a plate in a restaurant.
Something you might do while getting onto the web is log on.
An activity a kite can do is fly.
The effect of playing sport is winning.
You are likely to find an umbrella in an umbrella stand.
You are likely to find a separate shower in a bathroom.
Something you find at a funeral is a pallbearer.
going for a run is for Getting fit.
A rubber duckie floats in the bathtub.
Something you find at a meeting is a group of people.
If you want to surf then you should go to the beach.
You are likely to find a beam in a roof.
Something that might happen as a consequence of making people laugh is entertaining others.
some people are funny.
Something that might happen while discovering the truth is feeling hurt.
Women are beautiful.
A dog has paws.
The last thing you do when you go to a film is leave the theater.
Something you find at the supermarket is frozen foods.
A plumber can fix a faucet.
some people hate all religions very much.
You would go fishing because you want to catch fish.
A guest can thank their host.
Something you find at a hospital is disinfectant.
Painting is a form of art.
Leaves fall in autumn.
seeing a band is for having fun.
The last thing you do when you read a book is close the book.
divas can sing operas.
Something you find on a shelf is your cats.
An appointment would make you want to eat quickly.
Shoes have a heel.
improving your image is for getting a better job.
communicating is for Passing on information.
a brother can bug his sister.
a person wants to be financially secure.
You are likely to find a checkbook holder in a wallet.
an arm is for Lifting things.
playing sports is for enjoyment.
Something that might happen when you determine the truth is sorrow.
You would eat a hamburger because you want meat.
If you want to empty your bladder then you should use a toilet.
The effect of paying by credit card is getting in debt.
You are likely to find milk in a cow.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in a tall tree.
You would go to a Laundromat because you need to wash your clothes.
Something you find in a meadow is tall grass.
If you want to watch a film then you should go to the movie theater. 
a person wants peaceful sleep.
Something you find in a waste bin is empty cans.
The last thing you do when you play poker is cash in your chips.
You are likely to find a nose in the middle of your face.
You would see a band because you want to hear the music.
a dog can mark its territory.
the cerebellum is part of the brain.
You are likely to find a key chain in someone's pocket.
You can use your feet to walk.
people can experience pain.
Something you find at your house is your own stuff.
a person wants to see a good movie.
Something you find on the surface of the earth is a land mass.
You are likely to find a subway station in London.
a debit card is for paying for goods.
Something you find at work is a cubicle.
The last thing you do when you play ball is go home.
going on a vacation requires traveling. 
cigarettes are smoked.
You are likely to find a strip mall in the suburbs.
Something you find at an airport is a passenger.
Something you find in the office is a lamp.
You are likely to find plumbing in a kitchen.
lemonade is a drink.
You can use a bed to sit on.
puppies would make you want to play games.
You are likely to find a movie ticket in a box office.
Something that might happen as a consequence of running in a marathon is getting blisters on your feet.
a mineral is used for health.
Something that might happen while serving customers is you trick them.
Something you find at the office is a photocopier.
If you want to go fishing then you should buy a fishing pole.
evil is the opposite of good.
Something you find at the top of a mountain is beauty.
a bridge arch is for supporting a bridge.
Sloths move slowly.
You are likely to find a microphone boom in a recording studio.
Something you find on the subway is dirt.
hitting the bottle is for getting drunk.
Nickel is a metal.
You are likely to find a fungus in damp wood.
a coast is for fishing.
playing soccer is for fun.
You would design software because you want to earn money.
Something that might happen when you clean clothing is removing stains.
writing requires paper and pen.
Sometimes teaching other people causes a good feeling.
writing a term paper requires knowledge of the subject.
sending a criminal to prison is for punishing the criminal.
Something you find at a friend's house is a telephone.
You are likely to find a chess queen in a chess board.
reading the newspaper requires light.
One of the things you do when you do some exercises is breathe deeply.
You would sit on a chair because your legs are tired.
a person doesn't want global thermonuclear war.
If you want to pass a course then you should study hard.
You would examine a thing because you want to learn about it.
a towel is for cleaning up.
High blood pressure is bad.
A movie ticket allows entry into a theater.
If you want to have food then you should cook.
One of the things you do when you listen to the radio is sing along.
The effect of climbing a mountain is reaching a higher altitude.
citizens can air grievances.
The effect of fixing a computer is that you can use it again.
Lawns are made of grass.
Americans are obsessed with killing bacteria.
a student goes to school.
A garbage can holds garbage.
One of the things you do when you program is write code.
painting is for relaxation.
getting clean requires soap.
Mouths are used for talking and eating.
Children like to play ball.
the Internet is a large network.
Somewhere fish can be is in a stream.
a saxophone is used to play jazz.
If you want to go to the zoo then you should buy a ticket.
You are likely to find a volume in a set of books.
You are likely to find a horse in a farmyard.
You are likely to find a lead pencil in a desk.
You are likely to find a cat in a backyard.
A lion is a predator.
Something you find at a wedding is a photographer.
humans can drink water.
A fireplace can heat the room.
Something you find in a building is a basement.
A Cartoon is a type of show.
an underground area is for hiding.
striking a match is for making a fire.
Lacrosse is a sport.
a hose is for watering flowers.
answering questions is for teaching.
reading is a good way to learn.
You are likely to find the White House in Washington D.C.
The effect of taking an examination is stress.
a doctor is well respected.
a girl is a woman.
Something you find in a cupboard is linens.
You would institute a civil action because your civil rights were violated.
If you want to live then you should breathe.
A nuclear membrane is part of an animal cell.
Girls can kiss boys.
emerald beauty arborvitae is a plant.
Something you might do while hearing testimony is yawn.
You are likely to find a harpsichord in an orchestra.
Penguins walk upright.
A dance club plays loud music.
a department store is for buying clothes.
A yoke is a device.
If you want to sew then you should get a sewing machine.
Sometimes taking an examination causes you to sweat.
People hate to lose.
Mars has two moons.
You are likely to find a paper in a classroom.
a voice makes sounds.
men rarely wear hats anymore.
Beef comes from cows.
attending class is for taking notes on a subject.
Sometimes studying causes sleep.
The United States is a country in North America.
A toaster is an appliance.
You are likely to find a lady in a supermarket.
If you want to skate then you should have skates.
One of the things you do when you bathe is wash behind your ears.
A nucleoli is part of an animal cell.
death can end life.
Something that might happen while urinating is you feel relief.
Food keeps the body going.
A centriole is part of an animal cell.
a courthouse is for trying cases.
You are likely to find a mouse on or in Utah. 
Somewhere an automobile can be is at a gas station.
Something that might happen as a consequence of adding up a column of numbers is you need to sharpen your pencil as well as your mind.
You would go to a concert because you want to hear music.
A bin and a bag are both containers.
mailing a letter is for sending a greeting.
If you want to mail a letter then you should put it in an envelope with a stamp.
Fire can melt ice.
If you want to do some exercises then you should join a gym.
A bed is furniture used for sleeping.
there is no sound in outer space.
Something you find at Disneyland is attractions.
a saucer is used for giving milk to a cat.
One of the things you do when you get onto the web is start a browser.
A computer is for computing.
You can use a supermarket to buy raisins.
Music is used to express feelings.
Something you might do while having a physical examination is cough.
tanning lotion is for darkening the skin.
You are likely to find a human in a classroom.
You would live because you do not want to die.
A flower can be picked.
a person wants healthy children.
Something you find in a waste bin is garbage.
The first thing you do when you play sport is warm up.
satisfying appetites with minimum effort is for conserving energy.
Most books have words.
a playroom is for storing toys.
You can use skin to hold in blood.
peace before war.
You are likely to find a porch in front of a house.
A cat can sun on the porch.
Anyone can join a club.
If you want to watch a movie then you should turn on the TV. 
You are likely to find a keyboard instrument in an orchestra.
Trumpets make a noise.
Surfing the web requires a computer.
The last thing you do when you eat breakfast in bed is clean up.
the stock market can bottom out.
a garden is for growing flowers.
the desire to be loved would make you want to create something to help other people.
horses are herbivorous.
borders can divide countries.
children need pets.
You can use an entryway to go into a building.
A cart is a vehicle.
Water conducts electricity.
Sometimes playing basketball causes sweating.
People use computers.
talking to someone requires language.
If you want to chew your food then you should have good teeth.
Something you find at a hospital is blood.
You are likely to find a monkey in Brazil.
paints come in many different colors.
bringing home some fish is for dinner.
hearing testimony is for deciding a trial's outcome.
A finite whole is greater than any of its parts.
You are likely to find a world in space.
The pages of a book are usually numbered.
An audience can laugh at a comedian.
You are likely to find an uncle in a house.
If you want to wash your clothes then you should use water.
Sometimes hurting someone else causes anger.
The Internet is a rich online source of information.
Somewhere a chair can be is in a dining room.
Something you find in the attic is old clothes.
Love is a wonderful emotion.
You are likely to find trash in homes.
sleeping is for rest.
You are likely to find a stadium stand in a stadium.
Something you might do while fighting inflation is conserve.
the moon is a long way away.
getting something requires giving something.
Microorganisms can battle for supremacy.
People can build a house.
Something you find at church is a chair.
Something you find in the trash is old clothes.
a robot is one type of a machine.
seeing artifacts is for learning.
a barbecue restaurant is for dining.
Sometimes scoring a homer causes hissy fits.
sitting quietly requires a quiet place.
committing murder is for murderers.
using a VCR is for viewing film.
Something you find in the air is an aircraft.
You are likely to find a fox in the mountains.
love can surprise an enemy.
If you want to feed your family then you should earn some money.
bagels are a type of bread.
Some flowers are pink.
You are likely to find a weasel in a hole in the ground.
A friend can meet you for coffee.
You are likely to find a large food store in a large city.
You are likely to find a family room in your own home.
Something you need to do before you flirt is look good.
A French horn is made of metal.
The winter solstice is the shortest day of the year.
A fly is an animal.
Iowa is a state.
Something you find at a gallery opening is artwork.
You can use a lantern to light up a dark room.
Something you find in the countryside is horses.
Something you find at the corner of two streets is a crosswalk.
Something that might happen as a consequence of study is knowledge.
Cats eat flowers.
eyes can be blue.
picture frames are often made of wood.
You can use a disk to store computer data.
a bird can learn to fly.
You are likely to find a snake in Louisiana.
a blanket is for covering a bed.
a magnifying glass can be used to create fire.
You are likely to find a pair of pants in a drawer.
Something you find under your bed is carpet.
Swiss cheese is full of holes.
Something you might do while typing is press buttons on the keyboard.
You are likely to find a front yard in a neighborhood.
a pain in your chest would make you want to have an examination.
Fish breathe with gills.
snow is made of ice crystals.
the earth spins on an axis.
A car crash is a sudden deceleration.
No two people are alike.
If you want to read then you should get a book.
a king is for leading the country.
NSA is an acronym for National Security Agency.
You would clean clothing because dirty clothing smells bad.
an instrument is used for music.
things with a shiny surface reflect light.
DIA is an acronym for Defense Intelligence Agency.
Sometimes tying your shoelace causes you to bend over.
The Great Barrier Reef is a World Heritage Area.
Sometimes running out of steam causes your clothes to be wrinkled.
A teacher wants to have good students.
If you want to go fishing then you should have a fishing pole.
People can swim in a pool.
Something you find in the office is pencils and pens.
Harry Potter is a character in a novel.
If you want to sell your new book then you should get an agent.
the light bulb is an invention.
You are likely to find garbage in a dump.
You would think because you want to do right.
horses are fast.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in the store.
The last thing you do when you have a haircut is look in the mirror.
A director is a person in charge of making a movie.
Bicycles are human powered.
Something you find in a container is condiments.
Something you might do while gathering energy for tomorrow is rest today.
Something you might do while punishing someone is ignore them.
The effect of getting a job is working.
Cotton is a crop.
sandpaper is rough.
Rubber is an electrical insulator.
Something you find at a school is pens.
The effect of hanging out at the bar is a hangover.
telling a story requires knowing a story.
Esperanto is a language created to facilitate communication amongst people from different countries.
The effect of having a rest is renewed energy.
Something you find in a suitcase is paper.
You are likely to find a council in government.
Singapore is an established arbitration center in Asia.
posting a message is for communicating.
castanets are used for playing Spanish music.
Sometimes having a party causes a mess.
Zither is a funny word.
You would set a cup on a table because you want to put the cup down.
Something you find on the sea is calm and stormy weather.
Movie film is stored on reels.
Radon is a cancer-causing, radioactive gas.
people enjoy parties.
You are likely to find a general store in a small town.
A judge can fine an offender.
Magnus Mills is a novelist.
A person can blow that candle out.
starting a fire is for keeping warm.
Sodium is an alkaline metal.
Changing a tire is hard work.
You are likely to find a chef special in a restaurant.
You would use a computer because you want to surf the web.
A pharmacy is a company that sells drugs.
You are likely to find an injury in a hospital.
You are likely to find a post office in a building.
People can run.
proposing to a woman requires commitment. 
cows are ruminants.
Something you find at a hockey game is seats.
The Bulls are a team that play in basketball games.
Sometimes taking care of proposals causes you to win new business.
Time marches on.
reading is fundamental.
A cytoanalyzer is a medical device that analyzes smears.
You would pay cash because you want to avoid interest charges.
Horses are herbivorous mammals.
You are likely to find a toll road in New Jersey.
Something you find at church is hypocrisy.
Snorkeling is a way to explore underwater.
You are likely to find meat in Stew.
a toilet can smell bad.
Apples contain juice.
A surface is a solid flat area.
Something you find at a fair is food.
Sometimes having a cold causes you to sneeze.
cows are black and white.
Metamorphosis is a changing of form.
Sometimes spitting causes disgust.
Somewhere a plane can be is at the gate.
a lug wrench is used to change a tire.
wool is a good material to wear for warmth.
You can use a toilet to urinate.
Somewhere a dog can be is on the couch.
a telephone is for talking to friends.
a Flame is part of a fire.
fabric is for making blankets.
The last thing you do when you wait tables is pick up the tips.
having a shower is for cleansing the body.
a person doesn't want to work only for pay.
Pluto has a moon.
The effect of going to a movie is rage.
Rubber comes from a tree.
Horseback riding is a good way to enjoy nature.
Something you might do while taking a break is drink a cup of coffee.
Something you find on the beach is a beach ball. 
boys can shine shoes.
a watch is a very old instrument.
You are likely to find a rocking chair in a house.
If you want to have lunch then you should find food.
electricity can charge a battery.
You are likely to find consumers in a store.
Most toilets require flushing.
Sometimes going for a drive causes an accident.
Something you find at a bowling alley is fast food.
An apple may be baked.
If you want to walk around a lake then you should follow the path.
You are likely to find a cocktail cabinet in a dining room.
Something you find in a church is salvation.
Mac OSX is a kind of operating system.
an apple is an edible fruit.
You are likely to find a rosebush in thorns.
a magazine contains articles.
One of the things you do when you drive a car is check the mirrors.
Something you find in a building is furniture.
Something you find at a bar is peanuts.
salt is for seasoning.
A saucer is a kind of plate.
You are likely to find a candle in the dark.
a person wants personal freedom.
A map is a symbolic representation.
Superheroes wear masks.
A hide-a-bed is also called a trundle bed. 
A trundle bed collapses and fits under another bed.
a person doesn't want somebody to steal their things.
Something you need to do before you strenuously exercise is stretch.
Birds migrate to warmer climates in the winter.
Something you find at a wedding is flowers.
a closet is used for storing things.
a Star is generally very large.
If you want to post a message then you should write it down.
plants produce flowers to attract insects.
Cuba is a country.
You are likely to find socks in a store.
Something you find at a neighbor's house is a couch.
Vietnam is in Asia.
groundhogs are animals.
Air is invisible.
The effect of soaking in a hot spring is getting wet.
Something you find at a party is people.
Something you find in the cellar is Wine bottles.
Something you find inside a person is blood.
a waiter can wait tables.
Something you find in your mouth is taste buds. 
going to a concert is for entertaining yourself.
One of the things you do when you eat quickly is get indigestion.
a wind instrument is used for playing music.
Switzerland is a country in Europe.
eating dinner is for relieving hunger.
a piece is a part of a whole.
A human can laugh at a joke.
You would light a match because you want to light a candle.
Helsinki is the capital of Finland.
You would bring home some fish because you are hungry.
a person doesn't want to lose freedom.
cars are a popular form of transport.
Hunger is a feeling.
Something that might happen as a consequence of selling your new book is gaining money.
The first thing you do when you flirt is make eye contact.
You can use an oven to bake cookies.
You are likely to find a boulevard in a town.
an Owl is a bird.
Something you find in a bus is a bus driver. Armies can battle Armies.
There are 52 weeks in a year.
life is used for living.
A band can perform at a concert.
People sing songs in musicals.
Tigers live in Asia.
Something you find at the farmer's market is a tomato.
People want to use acronyms instead of long names.
You are likely to find a cup of coffee in a kitchen.
You are likely to find a T-shirt in a drawer.
You are likely to find a small dog in a Dog Show.
A neuron is part of a brain.
If you want to read the news then you should buy a paper.
a fir is a type of tree.
You can use the Internet to make travel arrangements.
You are likely to find a hardware shop in a mall.
Something that might happen while snoring is waking others.
Anarchism is a visceral revolt.
going to work is for paying the bills.
You can use a chess queen to checkmate.
You are likely to find a heifer in a cow farm.
a hill is a mound of earth.
Multiple nations can go to war against each other.
The first thing you do when you have food is start planning a meal.
Something you find in the trash is waste paper.
a daughter is an offspring.
If you want to get drunk then you should not drive.
a bucket is a container.
A Bald Eagle is a bird.
Eyes allow you to see.
Something you need to do before you have a haircut is go to the hair salon.
kissing is for fun.
Something that might happen when you urinate is your bladder is empty.
Fear is an insidious feeling.
You are likely to find a chair in a office building.
You are likely to find a step chair in the garage.
You are likely to find a cafe in Paris.
You would reach an advantage because you want to win.
a backyard is used for growing a garden.
The first thing you do when you have a bath is get wet.
You are likely to find a ficus in a planter.
fencing is for fighting with a sword.
You can use a general store to buy things.
Something you find at a sporting event is bleachers.
Finland is part of the Europe.
You are likely to find nylon in a drawer.
To understand the event "Bill drank his coffee.", it is important to know that Coffee is made from coffee beans and water.
If you want to fart then you should eat lots of beans.
Something that might happen while dreaming is eye movements.
You are likely to find a subway stop in a large city.
Something you might do while testing your strength is strain your muscles.
Something you find at an airport is grumpy delayed passengers.
an index card cabinet is for storage of index cards.
You can use shades to look cool.
A seat belt is an important part of car safety equipment.
striking a match is for starting a fire.
some Americans are Spanish. 
Something you find at a bus stop is people.
You are likely to find a parlor in a house.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing is learning.
The first thing you do when you go to a concert is buy the tickets.
Something you find in a meadow is meadow larks.
Something you need to do before you play basketball is get a basketball.
One of the things you do when you commit murder is break a law.
Something you find at the post office is postcards.
You are likely to find a monument in a city.
Something you find at a bus stop is a sign.
Tickets are used to get into some events.
Running is also good exercise. 
An orchestra plays music.
A pedestrian can cross the street.
one year is the time that it takes for the Earth to make one orbit around the Sun.
Something you find on the desk is lunch.
Something you find in the fridge is a jar of mustard.
Selection of roof support rating is a rather inexact science.
You can use a stadium to play sports.
craters would make you want to look through a telescope.
wallpaper is another way of decorating walls instead of painting them.
a serving trolley is for transporting foods.
Zbigniew Brzezinski is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Something you find at confession is people.
Vancomycin is a powerful antibiotic.
Cds are round.
An activity cars can do is race.
liking movies would make you want to work the box office.
Water makes a reflection.
hanging out at the bar is for meeting other people.
A balpine hammer is a hammer with a flat head on one side and a rounded head on the other.
Something you find in words is letters.
a car moves things quickly.
fencing is for fun.
Iron is a vital constituent of plant and animal life.
a tooth is used for grinding.
eating is an olfactory experience.
Something you find at the end of a line is a dot.
Little Gem Arborvitae is a shrub.
You can use a teaspoon to stir coffee.
A cavity is a hole in your tooth.
You are likely to find a bean bag chair in a den.
You are likely to find a paper punch in a desk.
an office building is for a place for office employees to do their work.
If you want to study for a subject then you should read books on the subject.
Interior decoration is an art-related career.
A toothbrush cleans teeth.
A cavity is a dark hole.
Something you find in a pantry is canned fruit.
A coil is a shape that something makes.
If you want to talk with someone far away then you should send an email.
Substance abuse is a much greater risk factor for violent behavior than mental disorder.
You are likely to find a ficus in a flower pot.
our mind is an untapped resource.
a seafood restaurant is used for serving seafood.
a loft is an area above the main living quarters.
Something you find in a restaurant is a good meal.
Something you need to do before you eat ice cream is get some ice cream.
a bicycle storage area is for bicycle storage.
Apple is a very nice company to work for because everyone is important there.
If you want to read a magazine then you should open a magazine.
a person doesn't want for people to take advantage of them.
You are likely to find a club in a golf bag.
A wardrobe is a place for storing clothes.
Something you find at a friend's house is family pictures.
Something you find at the post office is clerks.
eating is a social event.
Something you find on a plate is lasagna.
You are likely to find crime in the ghetto.
Feces stinks.
a kitchenette is a small kitchen.
Love has the effect of making the world go round.
Something you find at your house is a roof.
If you want to awake then you should stop sleeping.
You are likely to find pollutants in rain.
a door is for keeping people in a room.
You are likely to find a greengrocer on or in a town.
Something that might happen when you pray is god hears you.
spider can inject venom.
Something you find at the supermarket is macaroni.
loafer is a kind of shoe.
windows have a frame.
You would attend school because you want to get smart.
the sky is blue on a clear day.
a person wants food to taste good.
Bedtime would make you want to read to your children.
Somewhere a shelf can be is on the wall.
squirrels are mammals.
Something you might do while learning about science is read.
You are likely to find a chess piece in a chess game.
A dog is often found outside.
washing clothes is for keeping them clean.
brakes can slow a vehicle.
bringing suit requires contacting a lawyer.
Meditation can quiet a chattering mind.
trains are a popular form of transport.
The effect of getting drunk is a hangover.
a dog is a four legged animal.
You would walk the dog because it was restless.
Sometimes getting in shape causes pain.
Weeds would make you want to weed the garden.
a person can commit crimes.
people watch sports for enjoyment.
a person wants a life-partner.
a wing is for birds.
You are likely to find a monkey in the treetops.
weeding the garden requires patience.
a person may be guilty of a crime.
Asia is part of Earth.
playing basketball is for enjoyment.
People want to be happy.
a man can tie a necktie.
You are likely to find an acoustic ceiling in an office building.
Sometimes getting a good grade causes you to feel good.
many marriages end in divorce.
San Francisco is in California.
Something that might happen when you read a letter is you are shocked.
Something you might do while going to the mall is window shop.
a drawer can contain things.
thinking is for making good decisions.
You are likely to find a fountain pen in a pocket.
Something you find on a shelf is toys.
urinating is for relief.
A clown can delight a child.
Sometimes a spark causes fire.
You can use a file to smooth a rough edge.
You can use a world to live in.
a knife is used for cutting steak.
You are likely to find a steel pen in a pocket.
Something you find in the air is hot air balloons.
A boat can sink into the water.
You can use a teaspoon to stir tea.
some wines are red.
You are likely to find a mouse in a forest.
Something you find in the basement is mold.
You can use a balalaika to play Russian music.
Something you find in your mouth is food.
stopping your car is for arriving at a destination.
You are likely to find an eatery in a town.
You can use a metal rod to attract lightening.
You are likely to find a telephone index in an office.
One of the things you do when you make bread is preheat the oven.
Houses have a front door.
Rubber bands can be in the office.
You are likely to find a subway map in a subway station.
You are likely to find a fungus in damp dark areas.
Something that might happen when you buy something for a loved one is you wrap it.
Something you find under a bridge is a beam.
going to work is for making money.
a hairdryer is used for blowing hot air.
a person can shoulder responsibility.
a hallway is for walking in.
some people like to swim in the ocean.
Eye contact is important.
People ride in boats.
Bill Clinton plays the saxophone. 
taking your grandson out would make you want to take in a film.
many basketball players are very tall.
printing on the printer requires an ink cartridge.
You are likely to find a sofa in a home.
You are likely to find a tripod in a camera store.
You are likely to find a cardboard box in a warehouse.
a person tells jokes.
Some criminals use guns to commit crimes.
A person doesn't want to lose hope.
bees can live in a hive.
Something that might happen as a consequence of jumping at the chance is failure.
seeing an exciting story is for passing the time.
A stable is a building used to house horses.
You are likely to find a kitten in a kitchen.
You would attend a classical concert because you want to hear a piano.
A pit is a hole in the ground.
a stone can be carved.
You are likely to find a notebook in the bookstore.
Something you might do while cleaning the house is file papers.
You are likely to find a memo pad in the office.
The first thing you do when you stand in a queue is wait.
Something you find in the office is people.
Something you find at a state park is a concession stand.
Something you find at a synagogue is people.
Something that might happen while taking an oath is raise your hand.
lions are felines.
Something you find on a boat is a pirate.
The first thing you do when you get a good grade is celebrate.
You can use a large food store to shop for groceries.
Something you need to do before you cook is wash your hands.
Something you find at the office is paperwork.
You are likely to find a bookcase in a house.
You can use a corner cupboard to store dishes in.
a person wants cheap gas.
violence can anger pacifists.
If you want to sleigh ride then you should be in snow.
Something you need to do before you walk in the rain is get an umbrella.
Something you might do while painting a picture is clean the brushes.
The last thing you do when you pay by check is sign the check.
a bat is for baseball.
An army can storm a city.
You are likely to find a stuffed animal in a child's bedroom.
One of the things you do when you celebrate is have many beers.
Something you find in the countryside is open space.
Another way to say "a paintbrush is used for painting" is "paint brushes are used for painting".
dogs are often protective of their owners.
A Liter is a metric measure of volume.
going to a film is for enjoyment.
One of the things you do when you sleigh ride is dress warmly.
farmland is for building a farm on.
satellites orbit the earth.
You are likely to find a clip in an office.
You would hug someone because they are sad.
Something you find at school is a class.
Some people need glasses.
If you want to move a car then you should have strength.
One of the things you do when you skate is put on your skates.
a person doesn't want to be left behind.
a person doesn't want to hear bad news.
Something you find in the sock drawer is cotton footwear.
A packet sniffer is a program that captures data from information packets as they travel over the network.
Something that might happen while remembering is forgetting.
a battery can power a radio.
Apples are part of the rose family.
playing a guitar is for making music.
a house can burn down.
reproducing requires a willing partner.
reading a magazine requires the ability to read.
Something that might happen while getting fit is sweating.
Clothes are not part of your body.
You would go see a film because it's entertaining.
Something you find in a jar is beets.
Something that might happen as a consequence of designing software is you become rich.
Something you find at the theater is chairs.
Somewhere a fisherman can be is on a boat.
Something you find on the sidewalk is old gum.
standing in a queue requires patience.
coat hangers are for hanging up clothes.
A false friend can let you down.
Something you need to do before you eat vegetables is open your mouth.
Somewhere clutter can be is in a house.
a company can market a new product.
If you want to go to the mall then you should leave your house.
A daisy is a flower.
A male can father an offspring.
Something you find in a field is crops.
Sometimes laughing at a joke causes happiness.
The effect of walking around a lake is getting some exercise.
If you want to move a car then you should start the car.
You are likely to find an artery in your heart.
If you want to have lunch then you should have time for it.
Something you find on a desk is correction fluid.
an instructor can train a pilot to fly.
animals would make you want to go to the zoo.
One of the things you do when you apply for a job is prepare.
Something you need to do before you buy fresh fruits and vegetables is get money.
reproducing is for making a copy.
Something that might happen when you tape a television show is the tape runs out.
a passenger ticket is used for traveling. 
Something you might do while feeding your family is cook chili.
a mandolin is a stringed musical instrument.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking final exams is passing the class.
an overflow is used for preventing a flood.
a car cannot travel in water.
One of the things you do when you reach an impasse is become frustrated.
God can be everywhere.
The effect of living is sometimes bad.
Something you find on a desk is a student's head.
A person has an immune system.
people can receive gifts.
playing a game requires rules.
Most plants have many green parts.
The effect of working the box office is selling tickets.
plastic can melt.
You are likely to find a space in a box.
a postman can bring mail.
crossing the street is for pedestrians.
Cats like to play.
Something you find at a car show is an antique car.
People are never objects.
You are likely to find a walk in closet in a house.
movies are filmed.
You are likely to find a shark in tropical seas.
Something you find at the supermarket is air.
a bucket is used to carry water.
spectators can watch sport.
a frying pan can be used to hit someone on the head.
a person doesn't want to fail at school.
being in charge of a project is for managing.
A barn is usually made of wood.
Sometimes stopping your bicycle causes you to fly over the handle bars.
One of the things you do when you have a heart attack is gasp for breath.
Trains are long.
You are likely to find a pub in England.
an animal can live.
a desk is furniture.
painting a picture is for relaxing.
Something that might happen when you debate politics is heated arguments.
If you want to leave the line then you should ask someone to hold your place.
a card case is for carrying cards.
You can use a sink to soak dishes.
Something you find on a freeway is a dead animal.
Some people are very competitive.
playing poker is for betting.
Doctors provide medical care.
A person can step forward.
You are likely to find a surface in a lake.
You are likely to find a battle in a war.
You are likely to find a tree in Brooklyn.
You are likely to find an eraser holder in a school.
diminishing your own hunger is for survival.
waiting tables is for making money.
Rap is a type of music.
The last thing you do when you run twenty-six miles is rest.
The world can be a dangerous place.
Something you find on a table is cutlery.
a gel is for hair.
a human can think something.
Something you find at the park is a water fountain.
a phone is for talking.
Nova Scotia is in Canada.
Something that might happen while selling your new book is going on a talk show.
love can not be purchased.
Something that might happen when you advance into battle is attack your enemy.
You are likely to find a hair salon in the mall.
a person wants sound sleep.
You are likely to find a turnstile in a train station.
You can use a mayor to govern your town.
You are likely to find a weasel in trouble.
If you want to eat in a restaurant then you should place an order.
Oldsmobile is a manufacturer of a car.
Something you find in a jar is mayonnaise. 
A horse is a hoofed mammal.
mountains are big.
Something you find at a bus depot is a snack bar.
You can use a machine to manufacture.
a person can sail a boat.
You are likely to find silk in clothes.
Human beings are people.
Something you might do while breathing is choke.
You would read to your children because you love them.
A child is an immature human.
a cave is underground.
You would cook a meal because someone is hungry.
Something you find on the table is magazines.
a shower door is for keeping water off the bathroom floor.
a TV is used for watching movies.
Basketball is a team game.
The effect of adding up numbers is finding the sum.
One of the things you do when you go for a swim is put on a bathing suit.
You are likely to find a large food store in the suburbs.
a person doesn't want to get in car accident.
Sometimes acting in a play causes you to imitate an other character.
You are likely to find a work of art in an art gallery.
You are likely to find a desk drawer in an office.
If you want to move a car then you should put the key in the ignition.
People can get sick.
a chesterfield is a piece of furniture.
innings is the plural of inning.
Something that might happen as a consequence of serving customers is you get a tip.
a finger is used for popping a balloon.
a cannon can fire a cannonball.
a person doesn't want to fall down a hole.
Something that might happen while proposing to a woman is acceptance.
You would have a shower because you were dirty.
a tractor can pull a trailer.
a pouch is for holding very small items.
Something you find in the garage is trash.
Peaches come from a tree.
Something you find at fairgrounds is pickpockets.
Somewhere a boat can be is on the ocean.
The last thing you do when you read a newspaper is fold it up.
people fear the dark.
You would stay fit because you want to live longer.
You would go to a concert because you like music.
If you want to go for a swim then you should get in the water.
Something you find at an apartment is rooms.
Something that might happen while determining the truth is an investigation.
a toy marble is used for playing games.
The effect of paying by credit card is incurring a debt.
The effect of watching a musician perform is hearing music.
a person wants sweet things.
Somewhere a fan can be is at the ballpark.
a person wants thrills.
the wind can be blowing hard.
One of the things you do when you wait tables is take people's orders.
people can question authority.
Sometimes studying causes a headache.
a flask holds liquids.
satisfying appetites with minimum effort requires eating out.
The last thing you do when you mail a letter is put the letter in the mailbox.
You can use a machine to write.
a person wants free stuff.
a person doesn't want to live alone.
playing the piano requires learning something about music.
A mother is a parent.
Jewelry is decorative.
Something you find in the street is a penny.
Something you find in orbit is a satellite. 
pain would make you want to have a physical examination.
Sometimes improving your image causes guys to bother you.
If you want to take an exam then you should learn.
You are likely to find an insect in a garden.
You would visit other countries because you want to experience other cultures.
Something that might happen when you work the box office is you make change.
Something you find on the ground is trash.
Something you find at the theater is ballet.
Something you might do while painting a picture is open a tube of paint.
being in love would make you want to surprise someone.
A man can hunt animals.
You are likely to find a wedding chapel in a church.
Spring follows winter.
You are likely to find a sugar in a cupboard.
Something that might happen when you play the piano is make a mistake.
a place to stay is for residing.
an eraser is for erasing pencil marks.
Something you find at a friend's wedding is a bride and groom.
a box is for storage.
Some animals are mammals.
You would dive because you want to have fun.
You are likely to find a channel in England.
You would go to an opera because you want to hear the music.
You would stay fit because you want to live a long time.
a cow can jump over the moon.
Wednesday is a day of the week.
Sometimes starting a fire causes a forest fire.
playing basketball is for exercise.
The effect of lighting a match is combustion.
You are likely to find a coat in a wardrobe.
You can use a sofa to sleep upon.
Something you might do while riding a bicycle is peddle.
You are likely to find a shark in a reef.
Something you need to do before you take an exam is study for the exam.
Something you find in a casino is poker chips.
having a party is for meeting friends.
If you want to get warm then you should put on a jacket.
Something you find at a hotel is a bible.
boats can sail the ocean.
bald people don't need combs.
bedrooms are one part of a house.
A policeman can stop traffic.
Steel is hard.
You are likely to find a grape in grape jam.
Something that might happen when you sew is making clothing.
viewing a video is for relaxing.
Cellulose is a polymer made with repeated glucose units.
people can be rescued.
You are likely to find a bill in your wallet.
a high rise is a very tall building.
a vase holds things.
a desert is a type of terrain.
You are likely to find a sloth in Costa Rica.
Something that might happen while adding up numbers is you make a mistake.
You can use a theater to watch a movie.
You are likely to find a dollar bill in a purse.
You can use a French horn to create music.
Sometimes sleeping causes snoring.
Something you find in the fridge is ketchup.
Something that might happen as a consequence of jumping rope is you look silly.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in American history books.
Something you find behind the refrigerator is crickets.
kittens are adorable.
An activity pilots can do is drop bombs.
You are likely to find a checkbook holder in the bank.
a mat is used for exercise.
a bass fiddle is used for playing low notes.
You are likely to find wine in a wine cellar.
One of the things you do when you watch a television show is sit on the sofa.
You are likely to find a driveway in front of your house.
flying in an airplane is for pilots.
Something you might do while knitting is watch television.
Drinking water is good for your health.
You are likely to find a shopping mall in the suburbs.
If you want to talk with someone far away then you should use instant messenger.
If you want to eat a cookie then you should buy a cookie.
If you want to find a lost item then you should search for the item.
a person doesn't want complications.
You would take the stand because you want to speak.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking a walk is getting exercise.
peeling paint would make you want to paint a house.
Something you might do while going jogging is have a heart attack.
Sometimes playing a game with your friends causes closeness.
The earth rotates.
riding a bike requires a sense of balance.
You would play the piano because you want to make music.
Something you might do while running after the ball is trip and fall.
Something that might happen as a consequence of committing murder is jail time.
wanting your degree would make you want to pass your university exams.
a person wants leisure.
You are likely to find a stick eraser in an office supply store.
Something you need to do before you drive to work is know the way.
Starling is a bird.
wood can be burned.
Something that might happen as a consequence of entertaining people is you spend all your money.
One of the things you do when you read a letter is open it.
washing clothes is for cleanliness.
answering questions requires communication.
a person doesn't want to be avoided.
discovering the truth requires sifting through details.
Hunger would make you want to cook dinner.
having a lunch date would make you want to eat lunch.
a woman can please a man.
You would play the violin because you want to make beautiful music.
a person wants status among peers.
Sometimes seeing exhibits causes a new interest.
A trumpet is a brass instrument.
You would see a story because you want to relax.
Something you find at a synagogue is a congregation.
Sometimes diving causes you to get wet.
Terra Linda is part of San Rafael.
Something you find in a park is people jogging.
You would run a marathon because it is a challenge.
buying presents for others requires that you like them.
Time is not money.
Something that might happen when you play football is you drop the ball.
You can use a ring binder to store papers.
Something that might happen while getting onto the web is you time out.
a rod is also a pole.
Something that might happen while buying a shirt is you buy a larger size.
a person wants company.
Something that might happen as a consequence of finding information is you get answers.
You are likely to find a tearoom in a building.
You would go to a concert because you want to listen.
The last thing you do when you eat breakfast in bed is clean the dishes.
Sometimes emptying your bladder causes relief. 
Something you find in the street is a bike.
You would do a crossword puzzle because you're bored.
If you want to conquer your opponent then you should know them.
running requires shoes.
A playroom is for children.
Something you might do while passing a class is read books.
a hammer can nail a nail.
Mushrooms are a type of fungus.
weeding the garden requires work.
going for a haircut is for shortening your hair.
The horse is a quarter horse.
a discotheque is for meeting people.
Something you might do while giving a plug is offer a recommendation.
George Washington was the first president of the United States.
You would begin work because you want money.
a week is a measurement of time.
Something that might happen when you see your favorite show is you enjoy it with your dog.
Something you find in space is space junk.
Sometimes starting a family causes you to need a puppy.
You are likely to find a weasel in a pet store.
Something you find at a store is a lamp.
Sometimes changing your appearance causes other people to be more attracted to you.
intense curiosity would make you want to analyze something.
A person can walk their dog.
You would play lacrosse because you want to compete in a tough sport.
If you want to play a harp then you should take lessons.
You are likely to find a chess piece in a chess set.
You can use a water spout to pour water.
Something you might do while creating something to help other people is earn money.
One reason people book tickets is to go on vacation.
a dish can be used to hold food.
skin is for getting rid of toxins.
swimming is done for pleasure and for exercise..
The effect of bathing is getting your dog clean.
A boxer can train for a fight.
chewing your food requires a bunch of teeth.
A hunter can bag a deer.
waiting in line requires anger.
A butcher can cut the meat.
Something that might happen as a consequence of making a phone call is friendly communication.
You are likely to find a living room in an apartment.
Something that might happen as a consequence of using a calculator is numbers are manipulated.
a person wants light.
You are likely to find a night table in a furniture store.
playing football requires helmets.
Sometimes swimming causes an earache.
Something you might do while seeing a band is drink a coke.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in the Mediterranean Sea.
Something you find at an opera is a balcony.
firemen help put out fires.
Sometimes learning a language causes problems.
You are likely to find a soccer field in the park.
You would go to the pub because you want to buy a round.
Somewhere your finger can be is up your nose.
tickling requires evil intent.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to a concert is hearing music.
Sometimes giving assistance causes hardship.
Something you find at the supermarket is tabloid magazines.
mailing a letter requires proper postage.
You are likely to find a mountain in a mountain range.
Something that might happen while hearing the news is you yell.
doctors treat illnesses.
The effect of playing Frisbee is exercise.
You are likely to find a prison in Oklahoma.
kissing is for expressing desire.
combs remove tangles from hair.
burying the cat requires a box and a shovel.
You are likely to find a potato on or in a cabinet.
alarm clocks are loud.
You would die because you want to go to hell.
a typewriter is used for typing.
your job would make you want to have a nervous breakdown.
trees lose their leaves in autumn.
The effect of being involved in an accident is pain and injury.
a rug is used for warmth.
Sometimes washing your car causes water spots.
Something you find at a zoo is chimpanzees.
becoming inebriated requires drinking lots of booze.
washing your car requires soap.
Sometimes punishing someone causes resentment.
You would comfort a friend because you want to help them through a hard time.
Penguins use their wings to swim.
Something you find in a park is litter.
Something you need to do before you chop firewood is find an axe.
Something you find in the refrigerator is bacon.
Each country has its own flag.
a new job would make you want to have a haircut.
Sometimes repairing an umbrella causes the umbrella to work again.
Something you might do while getting in shape is run a mile.
Something you find at a bookstore is magazines.
handling proposals requires concentration.
You can use a blow dryer to dry paint.
You are likely to find a thumb tack in a cork board.
a person wants sympathy.
You are likely to find a ferret in meadow.
You would soak in a hot spring because it is relaxing.
Something that might happen when you eat dinner is you drink milk.
Something you find at a movie is a ticket.
Something you might do while laughing at a joke is have a coughing fit.
a person doesn't want slavery.
You would enjoy the company of your friends because you want to see them.
reptiles are cold blooded animals.
Something that might happen as a consequence of repairing an umbrella is you stay drier.
Something you find on the shelf is software.
Something that might happen as a consequence of sleeping at night is being alert during the day.
a person wants to pursue happiness.
You would build a cathedral because you want honor god.
a steak house is used for eating steak.
Sometimes traveling causes fear.
You are likely to find bagpipes in Scotland. 
a person plays a game.
Light is electromagnetic radiation.
People cannot breathe underwater without special equipment.
People can study from books.
a chest of drawers is used for clothing storage.
Leaves change color in autumn.
The effect of using a television is seeing movies.
Something that might happen while playing poker is skill triumphs over luck.
memorizing is for reciting.
accidents can kill people.
If you want to stay fit then you should join a gym.
a story is for making a point.
red is the color of love.
enjoying a film is for entertainment.
Horses live in stables.
a bureau is used for clothing.
Something you find in the corner is a table.
a person can reply to a letter.
going to the zoo is for education.
tickling is for making a child laugh.
You can use the Internet to communicate with family.
people can be irrational.
a barber shop is for haircuts.
Something you find under the table is knees.
squares have four sides.
going into a trance is for hypnosis.
entertaining someone is for parties.
Something you need to do before you laugh at a joke is listen to the punch line.
Sometimes enjoying the day causes happiness.
Something you find at a park is leaves.
One of the things you do when you get a contract is sign your name.
going on the Internet is for learning.
Something you find at a motel is a desk clerk.
Driving a car is a dangerous activity.
A watermelon has a red center and a green rind.
a front garden is for growing plants.
Dogs can do many things.
convicting a suspect for a crime is for justice.
Horses are powerful creatures.
Something you find in a jar is washers.
a kettle is used for making tea.
Something you find at a motel is a swimming pool.
Sometimes buying a beer causes you to get arrested.
Minnesota is a State.
Something that might happen when you play a harp is make music.
Something you find at a train station is magazines.
Lizards change color to match their surroundings.
If you want to sew then you should buy a needle and thread.
If you want to surf the web then you should buy a computer.
Something you find at a park is families.
People go to the beach for a vacation.
Something you might do while staying in bed is reading.
a shopping bag is used for carrying groceries.
The chemical symbol for hydrogen is H.
computers do not have brains.
a person doesn't want cavities.
doing some exercises is for health.
You are likely to find a handbag in a store.
Something you find at a party is food.
Something that might happen as a consequence of watering a plant is spilling water.
If you want to tell many people about something then you should write a book.
A statue is an artificial object that has the shape of a person or animal.
A teapot has a spout.
The effect of swimming is movement in water.
Something that might happen while winning a baseball game is you get more points.
Maps are used to find places.