Hockey is a sport played in an arena.
Baseball is a sport.
Basketball is a kind of sport.
golf is a game that is played on large courses.
A yo-yo is a toy.
a knife is used for cutting.
a chair is used for sitting on.
Beds are used to sleep in.
A bird can fly.
A boat floats on water.
Football is a sport that is played very fast.
You are likely to find a book in a library.
Apples are a sort of fruit.
a goldfish is a carp.
Polo is a game that requires one horse for each player.
You are likely to find a pencil on a desk.
A cat is a kind of animal.
A dog is an animal that makes a good pet.
a person wants love.
a dog is a man's best friend.
gold is a kind of metal.
You are likely to find a tree in a forest.
a pencil is for writing things.
The Earth is a planet.
Somewhere a student can be is at school.
You are likely to find a shark in any ocean.
Somewhere paper can be is on the desk.
Eyes are used to see things.
An activity a dog can do is bark.
a horse is an animal.
Something you find in a bedroom is a bed.
Something you find on your desk is pens.
golf is a sport which some people like to watch being played. those watching a sporting event are called spectators.
If you want to get fit then you should lift weights.
Something you find in a garage is a car.
Something you find in a street are cars.
a pew is in a church.
Somewhere teachers can be is at a school.
fire is very hot.
Some tables are made of wood.
A page is part of a book.
A tree is a kind of plant.
Somewhere a computer can be is on a desk.
One of the things you do when you do some exercises is sweating.
Something you find at the beach is sand.
A farmer can milk a cow.
an ear is used for hearing.
People ride horses.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in an ocean.
money is used to buy things.
Skiing is a sport done in snow.
a doll is a toy that children play with.
a person doesn't want to be hurt.
Something you find in a park is trees.
Pears are a kind of fruit.
sunset is beautiful.
Something you find in the water is fish.
Saws are tools used to cut objects.
Something you find in the closet is clothing.
a person wants a friend.
Most plants are green.
You can use a telephone to communicate.
Puppy is a very young dog.
paper is for writing on.
a person doesn't want to die.
sushi is a food made with raw fish.
You are likely to find a bench in a park.
a violin is an instrument.
Something you might do while reading a book is turn pages.
Linux is an operating system.
A wrench is a tool used by auto mechanics.
Something you find at the office is a desk.
The earth is the third planet from the sun.
A horse is a mammal.
An activity cats can do is meow.
a clock is used for telling the time.
Something you find at your house is a cat.
A duck is a bird.
A car is a vehicle.
Forks are used to eat.
The Earth is part of our solar system.
A yo-yo is a toy.
You are likely to find a monkey in zoos.
the sun is a kind of star.
Dogs are mammals.
bottles are often made of plastic.
Something you find in a pocket is coins.
One of the things you do when you sleep is dream.
a guitar is a musical instrument.
Football is a game.
An apple is red.
Something you find at the library is computers.
Something you find on a shelf is books.
Sometimes exercise causes sweat.
A human being IS an animal.
Something you might do while attending school is learn.
Violins are stringed instruments.
Something you find at the office is computers.
a book is for reading.
watches are used to tell time.
Something you find on your desk is a stapler.
a person doesn't want to be hate.
A cat can purr.
A cat is a mammal.
corn is a vegetable.
a dog can be a pet.
computers are machines.
soccer is a sport.
humans can die only once.
Venus is a planet.
love would make you want to kiss someone.
Something you might do while sleeping at night is dreaming.
Fruit is sweet.
Jupiter is the largest planet in the solar system.
Baseball is a game.
Fish live in water..
Something you find in a car is seats.
spoons are used for eating soup.
car is used for driving.
The sky is usually blue.
A library is a place that contains books and periodicals.
A fly is an insect.
A towel is used to dry things.
You are likely to find a human in a house.
finger is part of hand.
You are likely to find a cat in the bed.
Somewhere a pillow can be is on a bed.
A guitar usually has six strings.
Something that might happen as a consequence of doing the housework is having a clean house.
A guitar is an instrument.
You are likely to find a dog in a kennel.
You are likely to find a dish in a cupboard.
a net is used for catching fish.
Tornadoes are dangerous.
People can die.
If you want to drive to work then you should get into your car.
Classrooms are in schools.
If you want to go for a drive then you should get a car.
Hockey is a game played on ice.
If you want to have a checkup then you should make a doctor's appointment.
A cat is a pet.
Something you find in the cupboard is cups.
gravity is a force that pulls heavy things together.
Something you find at an airport is an airplane.
An orange is a fruit.
Most birds have wings.
dart's is a game.
Coffee is a beverage made from beans.
basketball players can be tall.
Something you find on your desk is a telephone.
A lizard is a reptile.
A whale is a mammal.
Something you find in your mouth is your teeth.
A camera is used to take pictures.
Somewhere a cloud can be is in the sky.
One of the things you do when you go to sleep is dream.
A keyboard is for typing.
a monkey is an animal.
Something you find at the library is librarians.
An axe is used for chopping wood.
A kitten is a young cat.
You are likely to find a koala in a Zoo.
a lemon is fruit.
Something you find in a cupboard is glasses.
Something you find in a closet is a coat.
Something you find on the desk is paper clips.
You are likely to find a cat in a lap.
Ducks can float on water.
You are likely to find a blowfish in an ocean.
a person wants money.
Something you find at a bookstore is Books.
love is an emotion.
Grass is a plant. Some plants have to be planted.
Something you might do while washing your car is get wet.
Horseshoes are made of metal.
Most people sleep in a bed.
Copper is a good conductor of electricity.
Something that might happen as a consequence of reading is learning something.
a person doesn't want to be in a war.
a soap can be used to clean something.
You can use a guitar to play music.
Something you find in a closet is a shoe.
Penguins can't fly.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in a beach.
a bedroom is for sleeping.
roses are flowers.
You can use a key to open a lock.
Something you find at a home is family.
You are likely to find a human in the city.
Something you find on the floor is carpet.
water is made of Hydrogen and Oxygen.
Something you might do while attending class is learning.
You can use a launching platform to launch a rocket.
Sofas are for sitting on.
You are likely to find a crab on the beach.
Something you find at a church is a candle.
If you want to go to bed then you should turn off the light.
Sometimes having a haircut causes you to have shorter hair.
English is a language that many persons speak.
Oxygen is a gas.
You are likely to find an altar in a church.
a person doesn't want to be diseased.
banana is fruit.
The effect of waiting tables is getting tips.
A king can rule a kingdom.
a couch is for sitting on it.
a bank can lend some money.
A bicycle has two wheels..
You are likely to find a fox in the wood.
A penguin is a bird.
A boy is a young male human.
Red is a color associated with the 4th of July.
bob Dylan is a musician.
Some leaves are green.
A house is a kind of building.
Champagne is an alcoholic beverage.
If you want to watch a TV show then you should turn on TV.
Something you find under water is jellyfish.
People sit in chairs.
a person doesn't want debts.
You are likely to find a gazelle in the zoo.
You are likely to find words in books.
You can use a floor to walk.
A wheel is part of a car.
Cows eat grass.
A host can welcome his guests.
Something that might happen while committing suicide is dying.
You would have a rest because you were very tired.
soccer is a game that requires a ball.
ice cream is a kind of dessert.
A car is for transportation.
You can use a cloth to clean.
a person doesn't want to fall down.
a bicycle storage area is for Storing bicycles.
Something you find on the sea is boat.
a glass is for drinking.
Something that might happen when you skate is falling down.
lips are for kissing.
You are likely to find a human in homes.
Something you find at a home is my bed.
You are likely to find an anemone in the Ocean.
a bus is a vehicle that transports many people.
You can use a gun to kill someone.
You would do housework because you want to have a clean house.
Somewhere a swing can be is in the park.
Something that might happen while sleeping is snoring.
a cat is furry.
A key can open a lock.
You are likely to find a crab in a ocean.
Pens can be used to write on paper.
a saddle is used for riding horses.
A parrot is a bird.
One of the things you do when you stop your bicycle is apply the brake.
Some people live in a house..
Bread is a food that can be soft.
Something you find at a hospital is Doctors.
a book is used for learning.
Somewhere a chair can be is in an office.
You can use dental floss to clean between your teeth.
Silver is a metal.
ping pong is a game played by two people.
A bird uses wings to fly.
restaurants are places.
Sometimes killing causes death.
a bird is an animal.
A chicken is a bird.
You are likely to find a sloth in the zoo.
A spoon is for eating.
War kills people.
A computer is an electronic device.
A cat can hunt mice.
You are likely to find a human on planet earth.
Something you need to do before you watch TV is turn on the TV.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
Something that might happen when you have a shower is you wash your hair.
a fruit is for Eating.
skiing is an activity that some people consider to be fun.
You can use a show to entertain.
Something you find in the cupboard is plates.
Something you find at an airport is a plane.
If you want to attend a rock concert then you should buy tickets for it.
Something that might happen when you play games is fun.
Something you find on a table is a plate.
Something you find under the bed is a dust bunny.
fire can burn things.
You are likely to find a lemur in the Zoo.
mercury is a metal that is fluid at room temperature.
Sushi is a Japanese food.
Something you find on the subway is people.
a person wants clothing.
People breathe air.
an island is a piece of land surrounded on all sides by water.
candy is usually sweet.
a bench is used to sit on.
Something you find at a zoo is an animal.
Something you need to do before you have a physical exam is go to the doctor.
You can use a bottle to hold liquids.
You can use water to drink.
If you want to get up early then you should set an alarm clock.
ducks swim.
You can use cloth to make clothing.
You are likely to find a potato in the supermarket.
a person wants a headache.
You would propose to a woman because you love her.
Something you find in a restaurant is a table.
One of the things you do when you take an examination is answer questions.
Something that might happen when you meet people is shake their hands.
You are likely to find a bee in your flowers.
clocks tell the time.
Death is the end of life.
You can use waxed dental floss to clean between your teeth.
Something you need to do before you go to a play is buy tickets.
your love would make you want to forgive someone.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going for a swim is you get wet.
Canada is a country that borders the United States.
Having long hair would make you want to have a haircut.
Fruits are a kind of food.
a person wants respect.
a person doesn't want an enemy.
An airplane flies.
Somewhere a shingle can be is on a roof.
Something that might happen while eating is chewing.
Something you find in the sky is birds.
People eat food. .
attending class is for learning.
a child is a young human.
Something you find at a beach is seashells.
There is food at the grocery store.
An author can write a book.
An activity a pilot can do is fly an airplane.
You can use a needle to sew.
Something that might happen while working the box office is you sell tickets.
Something you find at a neighbor's house is the neighbor.
Something that might happen while resting is sleep.
You are likely to find a doll in a toy store.
A violin is a musical instrument played with a bow.
You are likely to find a monkey in The jungle.
people can wear clothes.
California is a State.
A key is for unlocking doors.
Water and oil don't mix.
stopping your bicycle requires using your brakes.
You can use a parking area to park the car.
Something you find at a Internet cafe is computers.
Somewhere ice can be is in the freezer.
a keyboard is part of a computer.
An apple is green.
a toothbrush is used for cleaning your teeth.
Something you might do while riding a horse is fall off.
canvas is for painting on.
You would play because you want to have some fun.
Horses can jump fences.
Something you find at a park is grass.
New Jersey is a State.
a person doesn't want to lose their job.
a person wants a good job.
One of the things you do when you use a computer is type on the keyboard.
Tennis is a kind of sport.
A gardener can water her plants.
You are likely to find a star in the sky.
French is a language.
A guitar is a string instrument.
Something you find on the sea is a ship.
If you want to diminish your own hunger then you should eat.
Pianos are instruments.
One of the things you do when you walk in the rain is get wet.
A boss can be in the office.
All papers should be recycled.
a saxophone is a instrument.
Something that might happen while competing is you lose.
iron is a metal.
tomato is a fruit.
An activity a fish can do is swim.
A number is for counting.
a hammer is used for driving nails.
You are likely to find a snake in a forest.
You are likely to find a fungus in a forest.
You are likely to find a cow in a barn.
a person doesn't want to be sad.
If you want to clean clothing then you should wash them.
a sea is a large body of salt water.
You are likely to find a lizard in the zoo.
Something you find in the jar is pickles.
Somewhere a preacher can be is in church.
trees have leaves.
Somewhere a mirror can be is in the bathroom.
a wings is used for flying.
One of the things you do when you play soccer is kick the ball.
Somewhere water can be is in a lake.
Water is a reflective surface.
Something you find in the kitchen is a stove.
the brain is in the head.
a drill is used for making holes.
You are likely to find a wallet in pockets.
Cheese is a food used in cooking.
Something you find at beach is sea shells.
A chicken can cross the road.
Somewhere money can be is in the bank.
Something you find under a desk is drawers.
Somewhere a coffee cup can be is on the desk.
You can use a sidewalk to walk on.
a bath is for relaxation.
You are likely to find a heifer in a barn.
a bar is a place that sells alcoholic drinks.
a pool is used for swimming.
Something you find in the fridge is milk.
You are likely to find a sheet in bed.
Something you find at a church is the Bible.
Something you need to do before you take an examination is study.
You are likely to find children in a school.
a person doesn't want to lose his friends.
Honesty is the best policy.
Something you need to do before you write a term paper is research.
Something you find at an opera is soprano.
If you want to do some exercises then you should stretch.
A roof is part of a house.
Something you find at home is carpet.
Somewhere an airplane can be is in the sky.
You are likely to find a cow in a pasture.
Soap is used for washing yourself.
Somewhere a boat can be is in the water.
a person doesn't want To be alone.
Fish breath water.
Submarines travel under water.
A human is a mammal.
Unix is an operating system.
school is for learning.
You are likely to find a bicycle in a garage.
Something you find in a computer is a motherboard.
Somewhere water can be is in a swimming pool.
A school is a place designed to facilitate learning.
a person wants fulfillment.
Something you find in the ocean is a fish.
Something that might happen while agreeing with someone is a nod of the head.
A ball is round.
a cake is a kind of food.
Turkey is a country.
Musicians play music.
a fork is a utensil.
The effect of smoking is lung cancer.
Somewhere food can be is in a refrigerator.
the turtle is very slow.
Something you find on a freeway is cars.
You are likely to find a room in a building.
axe is a tool.
If you want to stop your bicycle then you should apply the brakes.
You are likely to find a bed in a house.
You would read the newspaper because you want to be informed.
Something you find at a synagogue is a Torah.
a niece is a girl. a niece is the daughter of your brother or sister.
There are other planets in the solar system.
You are likely to find people in their homes.
You are likely to find a fish in the sea.
Something that might happen while lying is you feel guilty.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to a performance is you are entertained.
computer is used for communication.
Something you find at a park is a slide.
Something you might do while reading is learn.
Something you find in a jail is a prisoner.
You are likely to find a shirt in the closet.
Star Trek is a television show.
Something you find in a classroom is desks.
Something you find at a university is a student.
A computer can be used to play games.
Something you might do while taking a shower is washing your hair.
Broccoli is a kind of vegetable.
A dog is a loyal friend.
Glue is a substance that holds things together.
You are likely to find a bee in a hive.
a telephone is a communication device.
You are likely to find a cat in homes.
You are likely to find a cow in meadows.
You are likely to find a cat in a hat.
the saxophone is a musical instrument.
a lion is an animal.
a person wants peace.
One of the things you do when you have a bath is get wet.
receiving a degree requires study.
Something you find in the garage is a lawn mower.
Knives are used to cut.
You are likely to find a horse in a stable.
You are likely to find a fox in a den.
Cows produce milk.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going fishing is catching a fish.
the Earth is round.
You are likely to find a bookshelf in a library.
a person wants to be knowledgeable.
a hammer is used for pounding nails.
lions are a kind of cat.
Bottles hold liquids.
a person doesn't want to be ignorant.
Something you find at work is a computer.
a pitcher can throw a baseball.
Something you find on the street is a bicycle.
Somewhere a lover can be is on the bed.
You are likely to find a small dog in houses.
Hockey is a violent sport.
People use toothbrush to brush their teeth.
Something that might happen when you wait on tables is you get tips.
Swiss cheese usually has holes.
a dressing room is for changing your clothes.
If you want to tie your shoelace then you should put the shoe on.
A chest of drawers is used to store clothes.
Something you find at church is a minister.
You would go to a Laundromat because you want to clean your clothes.
The effect of washing clothes is clean clothes.
paying cash requires having cash on you.
Something you find in the Arctic is polar bears.
horse jump.
If you want to go to a concert then you should buy a ticket.
Cups are used to drink from.
You are likely to find money in a wallet.
Something you find on a roof is chimney.
You are likely to find a mouse in a wall.
knowledge is a powerful thing.
music is a sound.
An adjustable wrench is a very useful tool.
people lie. parents lie. doctors lie. "This won't hurt a bit" is a lie.
Something you find at the park is a fountain.
a person wants their own house.
Matches are used to start fires.
love is a feeling.
Something you find in a house is carpet.
Something you find at home is your bedroom.
boss can fire employee.
Something you find on a boat is an oar.
You are likely to find a cow in a field.
a king rules a country.
People work in offices.
a person wants freedom.
The Earth is a sphere.
Mosquitoes are insects.
horse riding is a sport.
One of the things you do when you stay in bed is sleep in.
a slave is a person kept as property.
One of the things you do when you awake is yawn.
Something you find at sea is water.
Something you might do while paying cash is get change.
Something you find in a closet is a hanger.
a person doesn't want to lose all his money.
running in a marathon requires training.
You are likely to find a koala in an eucalyptus tree.
a helmet protects your head.
a person doesn't want a cold.
Something you find at the office is staplers.
a person doesn't want to be unhappy.
hibiscus is a flower.
You can use a stool to sit.
Dealer can deal cards.
If you want to read the newspaper then you should buy the newspaper.
Sometimes playing causes fun.
Something that might happen when you tickle is laugh.
finding a lost item requires searching.
a weapon is for killing.
You are likely to find a rosebush in a garden.
The earth has one moon.
The effect of smoking is cancer.
If you want to pay cash then you should have money.
A musical is a play set to music.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying a hamburger is you have something to eat.
Pilots fly a plane.
Something you find in church is a cross.
the Glass is half full.
You are likely to find a snake in a zoo.
Something you find at the supermarket is food.
One of the things you do when you watch a movie is eat popcorn.
a person doesn't want to be in a fight.
A verb is a word that denotes action.
the piano is an instrument of music.
Something you find in a pocket is keys.
shirts and pants hung on clothes hangers do not get wrinkles.
If you want to get paid then you should work for someone.
If you want to see exhibits then you should go to a museum.
Sunglasses can protect eyes from the sun.
Something you might do while praying is kneel down.
You are likely to find a mouse in a field.
Something you find on the table is a tablecloth.
Apples grow in trees.
The ocean is salty.
Windows are usually made of glass.
a knife can spread the butter.
Somewhere a ring can be is on a finger.
Somewhere a bride can be is at a wedding.
A bedroom is a room.
a person wants to have a pet.
a comb can part hair.
Horses can run very fast.
Sometimes going to a Laundromat causes clean clothes.
Shampoo is used to wash your hair.
Something you find in the newspaper is advertising.
Something you find in a forest is a deer.
Something you find in a cupboard is a bowl.
If you want to buy something then you should have money.
a guitar is for making music.
Eagle is a bird.
a tool is an object used to do a job.
A boy is a young man.
Something you need to do before you bathe is take your clothes off.
carpeting is used for covering the floor.
Something you find at your house is a kitchen.
Something that might happen while going jogging is sweating.
Somewhere a galaxy can be is inside the universe.
exercise is good for you.
A cup can hold liquids.
The first thing you do when you wait on tables is greet the customers.
Turkey is also the name of a country.
Something that might happen as a consequence of washing your car is having a clean car.
a clothing closet is for storing clothes.
Doctors can help sick people.
You are likely to find a pencil in a school.
Shovels are used to dig.
A magician can fool an audience.
a saxophone is a musical instrument.
You are likely to find a cupboard in kitchen.
You are likely to find an apple tree in gardens.
Something you find at a movie is popcorn.
If you want to buy presents for others then you should have money.
An activity a car can do is crash.
A nurse can care for a patient.
Something that might happen as a consequence of falling is injury.
Somewhere food can be is in the kitchen.
If you want to have a haircut then you should go to the barbers.
A refrigerator keeps food cold.
Somewhere a sunbather can be is at the beach.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to get a haircut is your hair will be shorter.
You are likely to find a bath in a bathroom.
You are likely to find soap in the bathroom.
You are likely to find glasses in the cabinet.
You can use a dining table to eat.
You are likely to find a cat in the litter box.
An island is a land mass surrounded by water.
buying a shirt requires money.
A needle is sharp.
Something you find in a meadow is flowers.
Life is too short.
a double edged razor is for shaving.
Ice is very cold.
music is created by composing.
Something you need to do before you take a shower is take off your clothes.
Something you find at a library is literature.
cash is another word for money.
Somewhere an actor can be is in the theater.
Somewhere peanut butter can be is in a jar.
Fire is dangerous.
tree is created by seed.
You are likely to find an apple tree in orchards.
Something that might happen when you go for a swim is getting wet.
You would take final exams because you want to pass the class.
Something you might do while lighting a fire is striking a match.
A razor is used to shave with.
You are likely to find a potato in the kitchen.
Leaves fall off trees in autumn.
Somewhere a sail can be is on a boat.
a key is used for opening doors.
Something that might happen while getting drunk is you fall down.
a pie is a kind of dessert.
You are likely to find a letter in the mailbox.
sleeping requires closing the eyes.
Something you might do while taking an oath is raise your right hand.
School buses are always yellow.
If you want to dream then you should sleep.
a computer is used for work.
Something you find at the theater is a seat.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going on a vacation is relaxation.
You can use a credit card to buy things.
Something you find in your mouth is a tongue.
hockey is a great sport.
fabric is for making cloth.
You are likely to find a lizard in your garden.
a submarine is a boat that travels under water.
a pocket knife is a useful tool.
Something you might do while committing to memory is repeat.
Something you find at the theater is seating.
Something you find at a park is children.
You are likely to find a cutlery drawer in the kitchen.
You are likely to find towels in a bathroom.
Singers sing songs.
The first thing you do when you attend a lecture is sit.
going to sleep is for rest.
One of the things you do when you drive your car is steer it.
JAVA is a programming language.
a nose is for smelling things.
A stove is for cooking food.
If you want to remember then you should think about it.
Fruit is good for you.
combs are used to straighten the hair.
You are likely to find a cow in the farm.
mammals are the only animals that have hair.
Somewhere a letter can be is at a post office.
a date would make you want to go to a movie.
playing sports is for fun.
Something you find on the windowsill is a cat.
You would go to work because you need the money.
a chess piece is for playing chess.
planes fly.
Skiing is dangerous.
Something you find on your desk is a phone.
If you want to sate your hunger then you should eat something.
The world is round.
a flute is a musical instrument that features in some bands.
You are likely to find a flower in a garden.
If you want to commit perjury then you should lie.
A stone is another word for rock.
pretending requires imagining.
Something you find at an opera is an opera singer.
One of the things you do when you have a rest is close your eyes.
Something that might happen when you compete is win.
Something you find at the theater is a movie.
Something you might do while burying the cat is dig a hole.
Something you need to do before you see old things is go to the museum.
Something you might do while going to sleep is close your eyes.
Steel is a metal used in shoe shanks.
a bass may be a fish.
You can use a launching pad to launch a rocket.
Something that might happen when you take a course is learning something.
Music is a language.
going to a movie is for being entertained.
Pi is approximately 3.141592653589793238462643383279502.
You are likely to find buildings in a city.
A sunset is pretty.
You are likely to find water in a River.
Something you find at the airport is pilots.
plants usually have leaves.
You are likely to find a weasel in forests.
You are likely to find a kitchen in your home.
Something you might do while fixing a computer is reboot it.
You are likely to find a star in the night sky.
Something that might happen while getting a job is an interview.
You are likely to find water in a pool.
Something you find at your house is your family.
Dogs bite.
reading to your children is for educating them.
a beanbag chair is for sitting down.
having food is for eating.
Something that might happen while enjoying a film is laughing.
Something that might happen when you wait tables is you take an order.
You are likely to find a small dog in a pet shop.
You are likely to find a dresser in a bedroom.
You are likely to find a snake in a desert.
Sometimes striking a match causes fire.
If you want to maintain muscle strength then you should exercise.
A snake is a reptile.
seeing a band requires buying a ticket.
You are likely to find a toilet in the bathroom.
Something you find in the office is paper.
Somewhere luggage can be is at the airport.
Something you find in the fridge is food.
Somewhere nurses can be is at a hospital.
You are likely to find a shark in the Sea.
a toy is used for playing.
You are likely to find a crab in seas.
You are likely to find a human in a mall.
Something that might happen while tying your shoelace is bending over.
Something that might happen while committing perjury is lies.
You are likely to find a marmoset in a zoo.
An activity a musician can do is play an instrument.
a driveway is used for parking cars.
Hats protect your head.
A jump rope is for exercising.
Denim is a fabric.
ears are used to listen with.
Something that might happen when you run is sweat.
You are likely to find a grape in the supermarket.
Winning isn't everything. But it's something.
Green is a color that represents life.
A projectile is an object that flies through the air.
a restaurant is for eating out.
IBM is a company that makes typewriters.
You can use a fan to cool off.
carrots are vegetables.
an apple is food.
Something you find at your house is a chair.
candles can be used for light.
a bank is for storing money.
A knife should be sharp.
Shoes are used to protect feet.
A watch tells the time.
A golden retriever is a sort of dog.
San Francisco is a city.
You are likely to find a knife in a kitchen.
You can use a towel bar to hang towels.
a car has seats.
You are likely to find a corner cupboard in a kitchen..
Something that might happen while making a phone call is dialing a number.
a bathtub is for bathing.
Somewhere an anchor can be is on a boat.
Something you find on a roof is tiling.
You are likely to find a horse in a barn.
orchids are flowers.
Something you find at a desk is a chair.
You are likely to find a star in space.
One of the things you do when you dream is sleep.
Something you find at church is a hymnal.
Something you find under a desk is feet.
houses usually have windows.
Something that might happen as a consequence of walking in the rain is you get wet.
There are twenty-four hours in a day.
You can use ink to write things.
Something you need to do before you go to an opera is buy tickets.
Sometimes playing a game with your friends causes fun.
Something that might happen while agreeing with someone is nodding.
You can use a kettle to boil water.
a boat is for travel on water.
an aisle is for walking through.
Cats have whiskers.
a party is for fun.
Colorado is a State.
You are likely to find a mouse in your house.
You can use a bus stop to wait for a bus.
If you want to pass your university exams then you should just study.
Ostrich is a bird.
Pizza is a food.
You are likely to find bread in a breadbox.
Poker is a card game that usually involves betting money.
A bed is a comfortable place to sleep.
Something you find in a house is rooms.
Something you might do while playing a game is win.
Exercising requires energy.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having a party is fun.
Ears can hear sounds.
If you want to take an exam then you should study for it.
The Statue of Liberty was a gift from France.
getting a good grade requires studying.
You can use a sink to wash dishes.
A trout is a fish.
You are likely to find a lizard in a desert.
You can use an apartment to live in it.
Something you find in a country is capital.
ducks swim in the water.
Something you find on the roof is birds.
A dentist is a doctor.
a shower is used for cleaning.
James Bond is a spy.
a ladder is used for climbing.
You are likely to find a weasel in a zoo.
hot water bottles are made of rubber.
You are likely to find a mouse in a barn.
Somewhere a waiter can be is in a restaurant.
Something you might do while running in a marathon is drinking water.
Uranus is a planet.
A dog can guard your house.
Something you find at work is the boss.
Something you find at a show is a performer.
a disco is used for dancing.
You are likely to find a gazelle in Africa.
Something you find in a plane is the pilot.
Something you find on a boat is people.
Peaches are a kind of fruit.
The first thing you do when you go for a drive is get in the car.
The first thing you do when you skate is put skates on.
Something you find in bed is blankets.
You are likely to find a choir in a church.
TV is an abbreviation for television.
A mirror can reflect some light.
Something you find in a forest is mushrooms.
rain is water that falls in drops from clouds.
A bus is a form of public transportation.
A college is a place that employs professors.
a grill is used for cooking food.
baseball is an American pastime.
Sometimes going to bed causes sleep.
You are likely to find a fox in forests.
cars usually have four wheels.
rock is a kind of music that is often in concert.
You are likely to find a sloth in a tree.
jacks is a game.
Something you find at a zoo is elephants.
A raisin is a dried grape.
pilots can land planes.
Something you find in a classroom is students.
If you want to get some money from someone then you should ask them.
taking finals requires study.
a pub is for having a drink.
a boat floats.
talking to someone is for communication.
Paris is a city.
Something you might do while doing housework is dusting.
the sun is hot.
Something you find at beach is shells.
You are likely to find a crab in the sand.
a key can open doors.
Something that might happen when you reach a tentative agreement is you shake hands.
You are likely to find a basketball in a gym.
Music is a form of art.
Ice floats on water.
You are likely to find a kitten in the house.
a ship can sink.
You are likely to find a human in on earth.
Something that might happen when you make bread is kneading of dough.
You are likely to find a soldier in a war.
Something you find on a boat is life preserver.
You are likely to find a small dog in the park.
books can be read.
Something you find in a building is the floor.
dogs are very loyal.
Something that might happen as a consequence of waiting in line is boredom.
cold would make you want to light a fire.
Something that might happen when you bathe is washing your hair.
You are likely to find toilet paper in bathrooms.
Dogs like to chew on bones.
Robin is a bird.
A horn is a musical instrument.
Something that might happen when you go to the mall is you shop.
You are likely to find a shower curtain in a bathroom.
a mind is a terrible thing to waste.
Somewhere professors can be is at a university.
You are likely to find a human in a building.
If you want to swim then you should get into the water.
ants are insects.
Long hair would make you want to go for a haircut.
Something you need to do before you watch television is turn the television on.
Something you find in the space shuttle is space suits.
You are likely to find dead people in a war.
If you want to make people laugh then you should tell a joke.
You are likely to find a creek in a forest.
a hat is used for covering the head.
One of the things you do when you pay a bill is write out a check.
Sometimes playing sport causes injuries.
bringing in a verdict requires being in a jury.
Brazil is a country located in South America.
One of the things you do when you watch TV is change the channel.
The Eiffel Tower is in Paris.
a parking lot is used for parking a car.
Something you need to do before you watch the evening news is turn on the TV.
basketball is a very popular sport.
Sailboats use the wind to move.
taking a shower is for cleaning.
Something you find at a car show is cars.
You are likely to find a horse in the field.
Most living things die.
Something you need to do before you wash clothes is put them in the washing machine.
Horses are domestic animals.
One of the things you do when you meet interesting people is talk to them.
A linen chest is used to store linen.
Saturn is a planet.
a dog can catch a Frisbee.
Lions are mammals.
People watch television.
a person doesn't want to be ridiculous.
Clavichords are instruments.
Vegetables are food.
buying a beer is for drinking.
North America is a continent.
Something you find at a store is clothes.
New Jersey is a state in the USA.
Kissing is a sign of affection.
You are likely to find a seat in a bus.
darkness is the absence of light.
pebbles are very small rocks.
a bean bag chair is for sitting on.
Something you might do while kissing is close your eyes.
Something you find under the table is a floor.
Something that might happen while having a heart attack is dying.
a scale can measure your weight.
Something you find on your desk is a ruler.
You are likely to find a gazelle in a Savanna
A window is part of a building.
Sometimes taking a break causes relaxation.
Something that might happen when you read a book is learning something.
You are likely to find a mouse in the garage.
A city is a place.
Something you find in a bedroom is a closet.
an eye is for looking.
An armchair is a chair designed for relaxation.
Bottles are usually made of glass.
Something you might do while attending a lecture is take notes.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing games is someone winning.
Fruit is a good source of vitamins.
An activity a barber can do is cut your hair.
Something that might happen while playing a guitar is you have fun.
Something that might happen while seeing a band is dancing with yourself.
Something you find at a waterfall is water.
The last thing you do when you do some exercises is do a cool-down.
Something that might happen when you pretend is you lie.
Each hand has one thumb.
Something you need to do before you ride a horse is saddle up.
Clothing styles change over time.
You can use a string to tie.
If you want to listen to music then you should turn on a radio.
Something you find on the ground is rocks.
Something you find in a garage is a tool.
Cats eat mice.
A person is a human.
Something you might do while going into a trance is close your eyes.
a person wants to have a family.
stairs are for Climbing.
Something you find on the subway is a train.
Something that might happen while buying something is spending money.
horses can eat grass.
You would wash your car because your car is dirty.
Lizards are cold blooded.
You are likely to find an anemone in a tidal pool.
orange is a color.
People can row a boat.
You are likely to find a grape in a vineyard.
Most rugs are on the floor.
Jacks is an old game.
a pilot can land the airplane.
a baby is a very young child.
Something you might do while scoring a home run is run.
There are black holes in space.
Saws are used to cut wood.
Something you find behind the fridge is dust.
You can use a board to build.
Something you find in a jar is jelly.
pulpits are in churches.
Water is essential to all life.
A garage can be used to store a car.
Sometimes having a rest causes sleep.
Violence is a bad thing. Violence generates violence.
Cats have fur.
The Internet is for research.
You would eat because you were hungry.
Paper is a limited resource.
a plant is a living thing.
Something you might do while listening to music is dance.
You can use a mast to hold a sail.
Something that might happen while comforting a friend is hugging.
Explosives are dangerous.
C is a programming language.
You are likely to find menu in restaurant.
Something you find under water is plankton.
Something you find at your house is people.
Milky Way is a galaxy.
People use forks to eat food with.
a ballpoint pen is used to write with.
a house has a door.
Somewhere a pen can be is in the office.
You are likely to find a child in school.
You are likely to find an accommodation in a hotel.
bathing requires water.
Something you might do while playing a guitar is sing.
You are likely to find a puck in a hockey game.
Something you find at an airport is airplanes.
Something you find at a hotel is beds.
Something you might do while eating lunch is chew food.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in a forest.
fire can burn houses.
There are nine planets in the solar system.
You are likely to find a lizard in a bush.
Most babies are cute.
You can use a dish to eat things off of.
air is a gas.
a toy car is used for play.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having a bath is you will be clean.
You are likely to find a bathroom in a home.
Something you find in a suitcase is clothing.
sitting on a chair requires a chair.
You are likely to find a marmot in a zoo.
Somewhere mail can be is in a mail box.
You are likely to find a grape in a grocery store.
Something you find at an opera is audience.
You can use a bungalow to live in.
bombs can destroy buildings.
You are likely to find a beaver in a pond.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going for a haircut is having shorter hair.
Sometimes comforting a friend causes bonding.
You are likely to find an anemone in the sea.
helium is a gas.
One of the things you do when you soak in a hot spring is relax.
The last thing you do when you take a shower is dry off.
Something you might do while playing tennis is hit the ball.
going to bed is for rest.
Something you find at a hockey game is a hockey puck.
pretending requires using your imagination.
Dirty clothing would make you want to go to a laundromat.
Something you find at a park is Frisbees.
wine is for drinking.
there are doors in houses.
You are likely to find a beaver in a dam.
A couch may be in the living room.
an electric fan is used for cooling.
An apple has a core.
pitchers can throw a ball.
Something that might happen as a consequence of tickling is laughter.
a tool is for building things.
A piano is for playing music.
a beer mug is for drinking beer from.
A plunger can be used to unclog a toilet.
Playing games is for having fun.
If you want to go to a movie then you should buy a ticket.
Sometimes attending a rock concert causes ringing ears.
A highway is a kind of road.
Something you find at a desk is a letter opener.
children like to play with toys.
Something you find in a house is windows.
a necklace is jewelry.
Something that might happen as a consequence of snoring is waking.
yellow is a color.
Something you find on a boat is a life jacket.
salamanders are amphibians.
If you want to go jogging then you should put on your running shoes.
A friend is a good thing to have.
Something you find in a house is clothing.
You are likely to find a potato in a grocery store.
Guitars usually have 6 strings.
A royal flush is a great poker hand.
opening a gift requires tearing paper.
an ocean is used for sailing.
Something that might happen while going to bed is sleep.
ice is a solid.
a quill is for writing.
You are likely to find a monkey in a tree.
You can use a soap dish to hold your soaps.
an oven is used for cooking food.
A xylophone is an instrument.
A cactus is a plant.
A kitchen is a room used for cooking.
You are likely to find a koala in a tree.
a horse can be brown.
A lifesaver is also a type of candy.
You are likely to find a towel rack in a bathroom.
a house is for living.
You are likely to find a kitten in homes.
You can use a hill to climb.
If you want to program then you should learn a programming language.
If you want to go to a sporting event then you should buy tickets.
If you want to have a shower then you should take your clothes off.
enjoying the company of your friends requires friends.
an umbrella protects from rain.
Something you find in the street is pavement.
You can use a blow dryer to dry hair.
tying your shoelace is for keeping your shoe on.
If you want to empty your bladder then you should go to the bathroom.
Something you find at a race track is horse.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to the zoo is Seeing animals.
Sometimes attending school causes learning.
A cowboy boot.
You would wait tables because you need money.
A bat is a mammal.
buildings can be big.
Something you find atop a mountain is snow.
A dart is sharp.
Something you might do while leaving the line is you lose your place.
Cats are a curious animal.
Something you find at an airport is a traveler.
A woodwind is an instrument.
If you want to have a checkup then you should go to the doctors.
If you want to view a video then you should have a VCR.
a rug is for a floor covering.
Japanese is a human language.
Cameras take pictures.
Somewhere a rock can be is on a mountain.
Something you find under water is submarines.
Dice usually have six sides.
Something you need to do before you rest is lie down.
going to a performance is for entertainment.
You are likely to find a fox in a zoo.
Something you find in a cabinet is files.
Kissing is a way to show affection.
You can use a tissue holder to hold tissues.
You are likely to find a human in a school.
Something that might happen while surfing is getting wet.
A submarine is an underwater boat.
beef is the meat that comes from a cow.
Wood comes from a tree.
You are likely to find a lemur in a jungle.
meat is actually the muscle of animals.
listening music is for relaxing.
You are likely to find an audience in a theater.
The effect of feeding your family is health.
Something that might happen when you go fishing is catching a fish.
Puppies are cute.
New York is a city.
Something you find in a backpack is books.
Beer is an alcoholic beverage.
going to the pub is for having a drink.
meat is a kind of food.
One of the things you do when you take a bath is get wet.
Africa is a continent.
Something you find on your desk is Post-It notes.
an electric pencil sharpener is for sharpening pencils.
Wine is a drink.
A mandolin is a instrument.
Miners can mine coal.
Most cats have tails.
Something you need to do before you attend a classical concert is buy tickets.
baseball is an American tradition.
Wood floats on water.
A human has five fingers on each hand.
a bar stool is for sitting on.
You are likely to find an animal in the forest.
You can use a parking zone to park your car.
Paper can be crumpled.
Something you find in the ocean is whales.
If you want to listen to the radio then you should turn on your radio.
James Bond is a fictional spy.
Lightning is an electrical discharge.
Water can reflect an image.
watching a movie requires buying a ticket.
If you want to stop your bicycle then you should brake.
Prisoners can escape from jail.
The sun can shine on your day.
Something that might happen when you ski is you fall over.
The last thing you do when you bathe is dry off.
Something you need to do before you watch the evening news is turn on the television.
Something you need to do before you watch a television show is turn on the TV.
Wood is used for building houses.
Guns are very dangerous.
water is often boiled.
You are likely to find a desk in a school.
hats can cover heads.
a person doesn't want to kill.
a piccolo is a small flute.
Something you find in a bedroom is a pillow.
If you want to have a physical examination then you should make an appointment with your doctor.
Texas is a state.
Kittens are baby cats.
You are likely to find a small dog in a dog pound.
time is a man made concept.
The earth revolves around the sun.
A ball is a toy.
Something you find at a toy store is action figures.
a string bass is for Playing music with.
a mule is a cross between a horse and a donkey.
Sometimes playing cards causes winning money.
Something you find in a boat is rope.
Something you find in the purse is keys.
an hourglass is an old way of telling time.
A man can marry A woman.
You are likely to find a refrigerator in kitchens.
Somewhere food can be is on the table.
oil is for lubrication.
Something you need to do before you take a shower is remove your clothing.
A gorilla is an ape.
A terrier is a dog.
going to a party is for Fun.
You are likely to find a small dog in pet stores.
Something you find at a state park is a park ranger.
Something you might do while going fishing is bait a hook.
Something you find in the freezer is ice cream.
Something that might happen when you fish is you catch fish.
Hair grows on heads.
a curling iron is used for curling your hair.
Something you find in a building is walls.
You are likely to find an oven in the kitchen.
Some fruit grows on trees.
People are mammals.
You are likely to find a computer in a school.
Chalk is used for writing on blackboards.
Something you find in a country is humans.
Something that might happen while listening is you learn.
Something that might happen when you go to a concert is listening music.
a finger is used for typing.
You are likely to find a hose in a garden.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in the mountains.
the house was probably expensive.
a person wants a challenge.
Something that might happen when you lose consciousness is you fall down.
Something you need to do before you go into a trance is meditate.
our solar system is part of the galaxy.
Something that might happen when you go see a film is buying popcorn.
Something you find in the backseat of a car is a seatbelt.
Oceans have salt water.
Some fire engines are not red.
flowers are plants.
If you want to cross the street then you should look both ways.
A radio plays music.
You can use a wristwatch to tell time.
buying fresh fruits and vegetables requires cash.
backgammon is a board game with two players.
a toothpaste is for cleaning teeth.
God is part of religion.
Something you find at a war is violence.
Something you need to do before you play a game is learn the rules.
Something that might happen while reading is turning the page.
The head is part of the body.
If you want to run a marathon then you should train hard.
Something that might happen when you take an oath is telling the truth.
a ribbon is used for decoration.
clouds can be white.
The effect of seeing your favorite show is laughing.
praying requires a belief in God.
Plants need water.
Sugar is sweet.
You can use a bath to clean a body.
Something that might happen as a consequence of jumping out of a window is you fall.
Something that might happen while going for a swim is drowning.
a horse is used for riding.
You are likely to find a front yard in front of a house.
alcohol can cloud your judgment.
Something you find under your bed is the floor.
Horses can jump very high.
praying requires believing in god.
You are likely to find criminals in jail.
A clarinet is an instrument.
Reptiles are cold blooded.
A retriever is a kind of dog.
You are likely to find a store in a mall.
People cannot fly.
DOCTORS ARE SMART.
people eat fish.
People can talk to each other.
Something you need to do before you laugh at a joke is listen to a joke.
a bicycle is means of transportation.
winter is cold.
a xylophone is an instrument of music.
good health is a universal goal.
Being in love is a wonderful feeling.
You are likely to find a bill in the mail.
a basketball court is for playing basketball on.
grapes grow on vines.
Helium is a noble gas.
You are likely to find a girl in schools.
a queen wears a crown.
You are likely to find a lizard in a jungle.
writing is a form of communication.
a teacher can school students.
If you want to go for a run then you should put on some running shoes.
You are likely to find people in a city.
Something you find in the backseat of a car is seat belts.
Cheetahs can run very fast.
combs are good.
a tack is sharp.
Something that might happen when you play sport is have an injury.
One of the things you do when you breathe is inhale.
a glass half full is also half empty.
You are likely to find a cat in an animal shelter.
Somewhere money can be is in a pocket.
A triangle is a three-sided figure.
a pen is an object that people right with.
Sometimes relaxing causes sleeping.
Somewhere a nose can be is on a face.
Something you find in a building is a door.
Horse riding is an Olympic sport.
Something you find at a toy store is toys.
You would learn because you want to have more knowledge.
You are likely to find a ferret in a hole.
U2 is a band.
a bed is a place.
One of the things you do when you read a magazine is turn the pages.
If you want to tie your shoelace then you should bend down.
You can use an oven to bake.
You can use a pillowcase to cover a pillow.
Something you find in the mail box is bills.
fish swim in the water.
Some chairs are made of wood.
A book is created by a writer.
You are likely to find a bee in a beehive.
A sport is a game or competitive activity, usually played outdoors and involving physical exertion.
You are likely to find secretaries in an office.
global warming is created by pollution.
a voice is for speaking.
Something that might happen while going to a movie is buying a ticket.
Something you find in a restaurant is foods.
You are likely to find a gazelle in Africa's plains.
Something you might do while gathering energy for tomorrow is sleep.
You are likely to find a human in a workplace.
One of the things you do when you have a nervous breakdown is cry.
You are likely to find a shark in aquariums.
playing sport is for Competition.
You are likely to find a box in the garage.
coke is a soda.
Something that might happen when you diminish your own hunger is you eat some food.
You would urinate because your bladder was full.
Something that might happen when you memorize is you remember.
You are likely to find a sloth in The forest.
Something that might happen when you have a bath is you get clean.
MasterCard is a credit card.
a text is used for reading.
You would go to a performance because you want entertainment.
computers can store information.
Something that might happen when you sate your hunger is eat.
You are likely to find a rosebush in your yard.
Something that might happen when you lie is you get caught.
Rocks are usually hard.
Anger is an emotion.
Something you find in a country is a state.
Soda is a drink.
Paint can coat walls.
watching a TV show is for entertaining.
north Dakota is a state.
Rhode Island is a State.
a person doesn't want to have a nightmare.
Something you might do while taking an oath is place your hand on the Bible.
Sometimes going to the zoo causes excitement.
Something you need to do before you chew your food is put the food into your mouth.
birds fly through the air.
Somewhere a paper clip can be is on a desk.
A baby can wet their diapers.
You are likely to find a potato in Restaurants.
a cup is for holding liquids.
Something you find in the chemistry lab is test tubes.
a triangle has three sides.
Something that might happen while playing a game is you lose.
An alley is a road.
Something you need to do before you get up early is set an alarm.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in the aquarium.
a kitchen is used for preparing food.
snow skiing is a sport.
A lizard can sun on a rock.
Something you find at a library is a chair.
Something you find in a drawer is a sock.
math is a subject taught at school.
The effect of memorizing is remembering things.
Something that might happen as a consequence of lighting a match is a fire.
Something that might happen while thanking someone is shaking hands.
An activity a ball can do is bounce.
The planet earth is round.
a stage is in a theater.
You are likely to find a marmot in the mountain.
the statue of liberty is in New York.
there are seven days within a week.
Wheels are round.
You are likely to find a weasel in the woods.
You are likely to find a roof on top of a house.
Golf is an expensive hobby.
a person wants clean air to breath.
A parlor is a room in a house used for visiting.
a book is made of paper.
a rubber duck is a toy.
driving a car requires a car.
fans circulate air.
a fan is used for moving air.
a house is sometimes made of bricks.
If you want to go for a haircut then you should go to a barber.
a mushroom is a fungus.
a container is used for holding something.
Study requires concentration.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in a sea.
Somewhere a teacher can be is in class.
You are likely to find a leaf in trees.
Sometimes reading a magazine causes learning.
A pianist can play a piano.
Something you find under the carpet is carpet pad.
Something that might happen as a consequence of applying for a job is Getting a job.
A dog has four legs.
Something you need to do before you take final exams is study.
You are likely to find a CD in a CD player.
Something you find at the repair shop is my car.
Something you might do while fishing is bait a hook.
wine is a beverage made from grapes.
a piano is for making music.
Sometimes opening a gift causes surprise.
Something you might do while running a marathon is sweating.
Somewhere a priest can be is in church.
Jacks is a children's game.
You are likely to find a potato in your pantry.
You can use bread to make sandwiches.
One of the things you do when you make people laugh is tell a joke.
a voice is used for singing.
a music stand is for holding music.
You are likely to find a bee in the bonnet.
A tuba is a musical instrument.
being at a concert would make you want to hear singing.
Something that might happen as a consequence of getting a contract is you have to work.
leather is a material.
Something you find in the chemistry lab is Bunsen burners.
Some plastics may be recycled.
Something you might do while fighting war is kill people.
A CD is a compact disc.
Maine is a State.
a toy soldier is for playing with.
A human can be in love.
a diner is for eating.
Lunacy is a form of insanity characterized by intermittent periods of sanity.
an arm has one hand.
a passport is a document issued to a citizen of a nation.
A guitar is a stringed musical instrument.
Mercury is a planet.
Something you find at a concert is musicians.
Somewhere canned food can be is in a pantry.
a rubber ball bounces.
Most paper is white.
Something that might happen when you play baseball is you catch a ball.
a frying pan is used for cooking.
You are likely to find trash in the street.
Seats are for sitting on.
Norway is a country.
You can use a toothpick to clean between your teeth.
a violin is used for making music.
The horse is jumping over the fence.
If you want to go to a film then you should buy tickets.
You can use shampoo to clean your hair.
a doll is used for playing with.
You are likely to find a blowfish in the sea.
You are likely to find an uncle in your family.
Pi is a number that relates to the circumference of a circle.
Irish setter is a breed of dog.
A rooster is a male chicken.
A gun is weapon.
Something you find on your desk is books.
Something you find in the sock drawer is a sock.
You are likely to find a ficus in a garden.
chalk is used for writing on a chalkboard.
You are likely to find a fluoride mouthwash in the bathroom.
Star Trek is a show broadcast from Earth.
computers are tools.
a person doesn't want to lose at a game.
a library is a building that contains books.
diminishing your own hunger requires eating more food.
Leather comes from cows.
Happiness is an emotion.
Something you find in a cupboard is a mouse.
cougars are cats.
Linux is an operating system.
A son is a male child.
Something you find in the oven is cakes.
Asia is a continent.
One of the things you do when you go to the hairdresser is get a haircut.
An hourglass is a way to measure time.
Somewhere a pantry can be is near the kitchen.
Death a is part of life.
thinking is for solving problems.
a party is a social gathering with music and entertainment.
a birthday would make you want to surprise someone.
A mirror is a surface which accurately reflects visible light.
You are likely to find an island in the ocean.
cotton is soft.
You are likely to find an electric toothbrush in bathrooms.
Something you find on the lawn is grass.
One of the things you do when you use a computer is type.
a highway is used for travel.
If you want to compete against someone then you should enter a competition.
a home is a house that people live in.
A violin has strings.
The first thing you do when you exercise is stretch.
Something that might happen while playing Frisbee is catching the Frisbee.
An open mind is a very important thing to have.
Something you find at a fork in the road is signs.
You are likely to find a heifer in a field.
Something you find at your house is your bedroom.
A passenger can board a plane.
Something that might happen when you have fun is smile.
A computer processes information.
If you want to fall then you should trip.
a pair of pants is for wearing.
One of the things you do when you get fit is exercise.
Something you find in the water is a coral reef.
Something you find at airports is baggage.
You are likely to find a hammer in a tool box.
Jupiter is a planet.
You are likely to find a weasel in burrows.
Something you find on the ground is dirt.
Somewhere a mirror can be is in a bedroom.
Something you find on the moon is rocks.
Sometimes getting in line causes you to have to wait for something.
One of the things you do when you contemplate is think.
A farmer can plant crops.
If you want to have a bath then you should fill the tub with water.
people can watch TV.
Somewhere the sun can be is in the sky.
Something you need to do before you drive a car is get a license.
You are likely to find a student in class.
A bowl can be used for holding food.
You would sing because you are happy.
A cat is a type of animal.
The last thing you do when you watch TV is turn the TV off.
a table is for Putting things on.
Something you find in space is the moon.
New York is a State.
A babysitter can mind the baby.
Sometimes committing perjury causes you to go to jail.
One of the things you do when you snore is sleep.
bears are animals.
tires are filled with air.
If you want to cut your hair then you should go to a barber.
One of the things you do when you go to the mall is buy something.
people can read books.
You are likely to find a luggage trolley in an airport.
You would read the news because you want to know.
passing a course requires study.
You can use a xylophone to make music.
rice is a food.
a nightclub is for dances.
Something you might do while wrestling is fall.
Something you might do while listening to the radio is hear music.
a computer program is a program that runs on a computer.
Something you might do while enjoying a film is eat popcorn.
a tennis court is for playing tennis.
Children love animals.
a gun is used for shooting things.
A candle is made of wax.
You are likely to find a bullet in a gun.
Birds fly in the sky.
Trees are partly made of wood.
One of the things you do when you play a harp is pluck the strings.
a baby can cry loudly.
Something you might do while visiting other countries is have fun.
You are likely to find a snake in a swamp.
a dance club is for dancing.
Something you find in the mail is letters.
Something that might happen while knitting is you use yarn.
a person wants free time.
teaching other people is for educating them.
persons can mail letters.
Sometimes spending money causes debt.
Somewhere garbage can be is at a landfill.
bathing is for cleansing the body.
a pet is an animal.
A ship is a large boat.
Something you might do while writing is thinking.
You are likely to find credit cards in a wallet.
shopping requires having money.
Something you find in the chemistry lab is a beaker.
Coca Cola is a drink.
An apple can fall from a tree.
Something that might happen when you shop is buying.
Something that might happen when you run a marathon is get tired.
A letter is used for communication.
Something that might happen while studying is reading a book.
Something you find on the beach is driftwood.
An emu is a kind of bird.
A knife can spread peanut butter.
You can use a pencil to write something on paper.
Something you find at sea is whales.
Something you might do while signing a contract is reading the fine print.
Something you might do while driving a car is crash.
a chair is for sitting.
Something that might happen as a consequence of lying is guilt.
You are likely to find a dental chair in a dentist's office.
You are likely to find linoleum in kitchen.
Most flowers are pretty.
Space is very cold.
The sun is bright.
Somewhere fish can be is in an aquarium.
People sleep.
Something you need to do before you get clean is take off your clothes.
You are likely to find ink in pens.
You are likely to find a beaver in the river.
If you want to type then you should have a keyboard.
there are 60 seconds in one minute.
Something you find at the supermarket is eggs.
People can smoke cigarettes.
gasoline is a liquid.
oaks are a kind of trees.
You are likely to find a horse in a rodeo.
a person doesn't want Pain.
Unix is a system.
people cannot breathe water.
Pepsi is a drink that contains water.
the nose is part of the face.
One of the things you do when you wage war is kill people.
Georgia is a state.
Something you need to do before you rest is relax.
You would take a break because you're tired..
America is a country.
a classroom is for teaching.
Something you find at a drive-in movie is speakers.
chicken is meat.
You are likely to find a kitten in a lap.
music is art.
Something you find at a motel is a bed.
a pulpit is used for preaching.
remembering something requires a brain.
You are likely to find wine in the cellar.
dirty clothes would make you want to wash clothes.
Something you might do while watching a movie is laugh.
One of the things you do when you live is breathe.
a circle is round.
A person doesn't want to pay taxes.
Something you find at a movie is people.
Something you might do while bathing is using soap.
You can use paper to make paper airplanes.
Something that might happen while taking a shower is getting wet.
Something you find at a hospital is beds.
Something you find at sea is waves.
a harpsichord is a musical instrument.
You are likely to find a mouse in a mouse trap.
Blood can be coursing through your veins.
a writing instrument is used for writing.
Turkey is a food served at celebrations.
If you want to paint then you should have a brush.
You would skateboard because you want to have some fun.
If you want to become inebriated then you should drink something alcoholic.
a person doesn't want to have no home.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in the zoo.
a painter can coat the walls.
kissing someone requires puckering up.
You can use a chess board to play chess.
A parent can name their children.
haircutting scissors is for cutting hair.
You are likely to find a manila folder in a file cabinet.
You are likely to find a book in a classroom.
a hotel room is for sleeping in.
A person can cross a street.
a mall is for shopping.
Something you might do while reading the newspaper is drink coffee.
a dining room table is used for eating dinner on.
Something you might do while exercising is run.
fur is for keeping an animal warm.
If you want to play ball then you should have a ball.
If you want to create an idea then you should think about something.
wheels roll.
a vent brush is for cleaning vents.
a master bedroom is used for sleeping.
a thief can case the joint.
A book is part of a library.
One of the things you do when you play is have fun.
A rocket is a machine that propels itself into space.
a person wants Good.
an earthquake is a natural disaster.
a feather can be used to tickle someone.
a tapestry is used for decor.
Horses are social animals.
People use teeth to chew food.
Something that might happen when you drink alcohol is get drunk.
Something you find in the air is an airplane.
You are likely to find tartar control toothpaste in the bathroom.
You would work because you need the money.
You are likely to find a suitcase in airports.
spending money requires that I buy something.
a key is used for unlocking.
a staple remover is for removing staples.
a man can father a child.
china is a country.
You can use a study to learn things.
A game is used for playing.
a person wants praise.
You are likely to find a bee in a meadow.
salt can be used to melt ice.
a fire needs oxygen to burn.
Something you find in the street is traffic.
Something you find in a bus is passengers.
a chest is for storing things in.
If you want to tape a television show then you should set the VCR.
You would fix a computer because it was broken.
Something you need to do before you go to a performance is buy a ticket.
gravity causes things to fall down.
Fruits have seeds.
A cow is a mammal.
buying a beer requires id.
falling requires losing your balance.
Something you might do while entertaining people is sing.
You can use a soap to wash your hands.
people can ride horses.
mechanics can service cars.
Something that might happen when you relax is sleep.
water is used for quenching thirst.
Table tennis is a sport.
A planet is a large object that orbits a star.
You are likely to find a soap dish in the bathroom.
Education is acquisition of knowledge and understanding.
a bicycle is used for transportation.
rain falls.
You are likely to find a refrigerator freezer in the kitchen.
Something you find in the corner is a spider web.
An activity teacher can do is teach.
Something that might happen when you do the housework is cleaning.
You would bake a cake because Someone has a birthday.
A house is in a neighborhood.
a person wants lots of money.
Somewhere a feather can be is on a bird.
Sometimes making bread causes a wonderful smell.
A letter is part of a word.
Pens have ink.
You are likely to find trash in a dump.
A phone is used for communication.
You are likely to find a heifer in your own meadow.
You are likely to find a fungus in your toenails.
a toilet seat is used for sitting on.
Something you need to do before you wash your clothes is take them off.
wars are bad.
Something you find in a pocket is lint.
You can use a stove to cook.
Something you find under the carpet is a pad.
Something you find in the air is birds.
a ticket office is for buying tickets.
Something you find in a laboratory is microscopes.
You are likely to find a ferret in a pet store.
boys can date girls.
A dog is a canine.
You are likely to find a mouthwash in a bathroom.
schools are places to learn things.
a love seat is for sitting on.
A car can go fast.
Something you need to do before you drive is get in the car.
Something you might do while going to the pub is have a drink.
A cat can corner a mouse.
Scales are for weighing things.
sitting down requires bending your knees.
Something that might happen while thanking someone is a smile.
Something you find under the closet is a basement.
An activity a horse can do is race.
Something you need to do before you surf the net is turn on the computer.
You are likely to find a clothing store in mall.
You are likely to find the sun in the center of the solar system.
People can drive cars.
Something you need to do before you go jogging is put on shoes.
A turtle is a reptile.
Kiwi is a bird.
an explosive is for blowing things up.
You are likely to find a fungus in a damp place.
A prune is a dried plum.
Most people are right-handed.
The last thing you do when you clean your clothes is put them away.
You are likely to find a dish in the dishwasher.
Beethoven is also a composer.
Something you find in the mail box is letters.
You are likely to find a sugar in the pantry.
A lobby is a room located on the ground floor of a multi-story building.
Cats chase mice.
English is a language.
a basketball bounces.
You are likely to find water in a bottle.
An accordion is a musical instrument.
You are likely to find a launching pad in Florida.
You are likely to find a runway in an airport.
A sister is a girl born to the same parents as another person.
Earthquakes can shake the ground.
a C program is a program written in C.
a movie theater seat is used for sitting while watching a movie.
Liters is a measurement of volume in the metric system.
You are likely to find a tooth in my mouth.
7-Up is a soda.
Something you find in a backpack is a compass.
Something that might happen when you have lunch is eating out with someone.
a dog is a good friend.
You are likely to find an electric blanket in a bed.
You are likely to find a koala in Australia. 
Ducks have a bill.
Something you find in a laboratory is scientists.
a band can play music.
a person wants relaxation.
If you want to read a book then you should open a book.
Something you might do while playing sports is running.
You can use an action figure to play with.
buying products requires money.
If you want to paint a picture then you should have paints.
Something you might do while walking is stumble.
Somewhere a telephone can be is in the office.
Water reflects things.
Something you need to do before you see art is go to a museum.
Something you might do while playing lacrosse is run.
a person doesn't want bad things to happen to them.
playing is for having fun.
Something you need to do before you go to a baseball game is buy a ticket.
paper can be for drawing.
people see through their eyes.
a person wants to learn.
If you want to do some exercises then you should go to the gym.
You would give assistance because you want to help.
One of the things you do when you bring suit is hire a lawyer.
Something that might happen while opening a gift is surprise.
You are likely to find a beaver in creek.
Something you find in a building is stairs.
A space is an area that has meaning.
Sometimes examining a thing causes the thing to be changed.
Something you find in the oven is racks.
Cats are very curious.
jars are containers.
Tornadoes are very destructive.
Pipes are used to smoke tobacco.
tornadoes destroy things.
Sailors can sail ships.
A hammer is a tool.
Pi is an irrational number.
a rook is a chess piece.
The golden gate bridge.
jacks is a game played by children.
Sometimes flying in an airplane causes panic.
AIDS is a virus.
Something you find on a desk is a notebook.
food costs money. 
money pays for something which costs money.
Sometimes calculating things quickly causes mistakes.
Something you might do while seeing a band is listening to music.
visiting other countries requires traveling.
You are likely to find a cake in a bakery.
a book end is used for keeping books from falling.
A parent can name a child.
Something you find at the movies is seats.
Sometimes thinking causes ideas.
leaves grow on a tree.
boats should not sink.
a fiddle is a sort of violin.
The empire state building.
Thief can case house.
Something you find in outer space is asteroids.
tea is a drink.
A glass of water. Half full, if one is an optimist. Half empty, if one is a pessimist.
Children learn through playing.
Something that might happen when you sleep at night is you snore.
Something you find in a car is a driver.
Kittens are so cute.
Something that might happen when you play a guitar is strumming the strings.
there are 7 continents on earth.
You are likely to find a ferret in forest.
You are likely to find a cat in a tree.
You are likely to find a ficus in my house.
a person doesn't want abuse.
Most pizza has cheese on it.
A bicycle is a two wheel vehicle.
If you want to eat breakfast then you should wake up.
A test would make you want to study for a subject.
Something you find at a rest area is a bathroom.
You are likely to find a pair of pants in the closet.
a bridge is for crossing a river.
You can use the ocean to swim in.
An activity a student can do is learning.
Denis Howe is a man.
People have feelings.
An activity a golfer can do is play golf.
Something you find in a laboratory is a researcher.
Rome is a city in Italy.
a room is for living in.
Steak is a sort of food.
You would drink because you were thirsty.
cleaning your clothes requires some detergent.
plants grow.
Something that might happen while serving customers is smiling.
Massachusetts is a state located on the eastern seaboard of north America. 
A key is part of a keyboard.
people are animals.
An electron is part of an atom.
a flute is a wind instrument.
A person doesn't want to be fired.
You can use a highway to drive on.
a bomb is used for blowing things up.
One of the things you do when you cash in is get money.
a cat can drink water.
One of the things you do when you exercise is get tired.
wood is a material.
Something that might happen while going to a restaurant is eating food.
Coffee contains caffeine.
A dress is a form of clothing worn by women.
a flag is a symbol of a country.
A person can voice an opinion.
A party is a social gathering.
Something you might do while eating an apple is chewing.
superstition is a bad thing.
playing Frisbee is for having fun..
Something you find at dinner is forks.
You are likely to find a shelf in a closet.
A game is an activity.
scoring a home run requires hitting the ball.
Something you find in a house is a wall.
gas is a state of matter.
a dog has fur.
If you want to contemplate then you should think.
a can is a container.
You are likely to find a planet in outer space.
Pots are used to cook food.
Something that might happen when you begin work is you turn on your computer.
A mosquito can fly.
Something you find on the surface of the earth is water.
An activity an eagle can do is fly.
You are likely to find a screwdriver in a toolbox.
a closet is for storing clothing.
You can use a townhouse to live in.
A quill is a feather used for writing.
People like to win things.
You can use linoleum to cover your floor.
Something you need to do before you clean clothing is put them in the washing machine.
a creek is a small river.
Somewhere sand can be is in a desert.
A king is a hereditary ruler of a country.
You are likely to find cash in your wallet.
a disposable razor is for shaving.
You are likely to find salt in the ocean.
The dishes were used to serve food.
If you want to go to sleep then you should close your eyes.
Something that might happen as a consequence of moving a car is an accident.
Something you find at a home is a television.
Something you might do while proving your physical endurance is lift weights.
You are likely to find a notepad in your desk.
Something you find at a war is weapons.
a leaf is part of a tree.
A satchel is a bag that has a handle.
Somewhere a furnace can be is in the basement.
learning a language requires study.
You are likely to find a fox in its hole.
You are likely to find a debit card in a wallet.
a person wants to be comforted.
Something that might happen when you take the bus is sitting down.
You can use a cat to catch mice.
a television program is a program shown on television.
An activity computers can do is compute.
a match is for lighting fire.
Sometimes applying for a job causes rejection.
having a conversation requires you to talk.
Something you find in outer space is other planets.
You are likely to find dirty dishes in the sink.
a girl can wear a dress.
A cook can prepare a meal.
Sometimes losing consciousness causes a fall.
Something you might do while attending class is take notes.
Something you find at an airport is a security guard.
a baseball is for playing baseball.
bathing is for getting clean.
an envelope is used for mailing a letter.
You are likely to find leaves in trees.
Something you find at a movie is an actor.
Something you find in orbit is satellite.
ping pong is a sport.
Vermont is a State.
Mammals have fur..
If you want to go see a play then you should buy a ticket.
University is a place of learning.
a passport case is used for holding your passport.
Something you find at a fast-food restaurant is French fries.
Babies have a mother and a father.
Metals conduct electricity.
Something that might happen while taking a break is smoke a cigarette.
a classroom chair is used for sitting.
You are likely to find a ficus in the living room.
Something you find at sea is a sailor.
Music can be soothing.
Something you find on the street is asphalt.
Something you need to do before you bathe is fill the bathtub with water.
Something that might happen while riding a bicycle is falling off.
a medal is a type of award.
A sword is sharp.
my car is red.
Something that might happen while reading a magazine is learning.
A flute is an instrument.
Pizza is a disc-shaped food item.
Solaris is an operating system.
You are likely to find a captain in a ship.
a garment bag is for storing clothes.
You would go to sleep because you want to rest up.
You are likely to find a key chain in a pocket.
If you want to grow vegetables then you should plant some seeds.
Something you find at a zoo is giraffes.
Long hair would make you want to go to get a haircut.
If you want to walk then you should put on shoes.
Something that might happen as a consequence of hearing the news is being sad.
You are likely to find a potato in the refrigerator.
A revolver can be used to shoot someone.
a clock keeps track of time.
Something that might happen when you climb is falling.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having a heart attack is death.
a person doesn't want to break her leg.
a fire extinguisher is for putting out fires.
You are likely to find an anemone in a salt water aquarium.
a kitchen is for cooking food.
You are likely to find a steering wheel in a car.
A stage is used for plays.
Something you need to do before you wait on tables is get a waiter's job.
Something you find under the carpet is floor.
cats are carnivores.
a computer is used for calculating.
a diamond is hard.
You are likely to find a chest of drawers in a bedroom.
Something you find at a fraternity house is beer kegs.
a person doesn't want to fail.
fish are colorful.
an umbrella is for protection from the rain.
Something you might do while listening to music is relax.
You would read a book because you want to learn something.
a bat is for hitting a ball.
Something you might do while washing your hands is use soap.
Somewhere an apple can be is in an apple tree.
a chapel is used for praying.
Something that might happen when you play chess is winning.
a banjo is for Playing music on.
a movie would make you want to stand in a queue.
a person wants to achieve their goals.
a roadway is used for driving on.
You are likely to find bagpipes in Scotland.
You can use a textile to make clothing.
Something you might do while learning about science is do an experiment.
You can use a dining table to eat dinner.
You are likely to find a heifer in the farm.
Something you find on a street is a curb.
You are likely to find a kitten in a pet store.
Stealing is bad.
A chicken can produce eggs.
Finch is a bird.
Sometimes leaving the line causes you to lose your place.
a condominium is used for living in.
New Mexico is a State.
You are likely to find a ceiling in a building.
a mother can care for her child.
Something you need to do before you go on the Internet is turn the computer on.
Something you need to do before you get to the front of the line is wait your turn.
a book contains knowledge.
Insects always have six legs.
pitchers hold liquids.
Something you find in outer space is a star.
Pink is a color. 
Pink is made when white and red pigments are mixed. 
This eraser is pink. 
Erasers are made of rubber. 
Erasers are for correcting mistakes written in pencil.
You are likely to find a bell in a church.
You are likely to find a coffee table in living room.
You are likely to find a snake in jungle.
Something you might do while painting a picture is look at a model.
Champagne is a French sparkling wine.
plants sometimes have flowers.
You are likely to find a passenger terminal in the airport.
Something you might do while making a patchwork quilt is sew.
Somewhere shade can be is under a tree.
Something you find on television is commercial.
a bottle can contain liquid.
a person doesn't want a divorce.
Somewhere clothing can be is in a drawer.
New Hampshire is a State.
a hot dog is food.
a sound is for hearing.
You are likely to find a building in a town.
Farmers can farm the land.
all people die eventually.
a person wants to have acceptance.
a person doesn't want to make mistakes.
a harp is an instrument.
You can use a tennis ball to play tennis.
Something you find in a jar is a cookie.
Something you might do while playing basketball is score points.
smoking is bad for health.
Somewhere an astronaut can be is on the space shuttle.
Something that might happen while going for a run is sweating.
Something that might happen while catching mumps is you have a fever.
bees are insects.
water is liquid.
Something that might happen as a consequence of fiddling is dancing about.
Jam is a spread made from fruit.
A play is also a form of entertainment.
You are likely to find paper in a school.
laptop is a kind of computer.
War is a bad thing.
Somewhere a cat can be is in the bag.
If you want to take the bus then you should go to the bus stop.
committing perjury requires telling lies.
a cartoon is a drawing that represents a real object.
You would wait tables because you want make money.
If you want to stop your car then you should press the brakes.
One of the things you do when you talk to someone is listen to them.
One of the things you do when you sit down is bend your knees.
You are likely to find an apple tree in a forest.
You are likely to find staples in a stapler.
Something you find in the countryside is fields.
Something you find in space is vacuum.
A gun is made of metal.
If you want to wait on tables then you should get a job at a restaurant.
Skeleton key.
If you want to learn about a subject then you should read a book about it.
People can listen to music.
If you want to hear testimony then you should go to a court.
a fan is used for circulating air.
You are likely to find a heifer in the pasture.
You are likely to find a soldier in an army.
parents can name their babies.
a match can light a candle.
there are 24 hours in one day.
You can use wheat to make bread.
You would eat lunch because you were hungry.
Something that might happen when you diminish your own hunger is eat.
Pepsi is a soda.
Something you find in a meadow is a wild flower.
If you want to take a bath then you should take your clothes off.
buying a hamburger is for eating.
You are likely to find a crab in water.
an artist can paint a portrait.
The earth is spherical.
All matter is made of atoms.
swimming is a sport.
Something you find in a park is a playground.
A penny is a coin which is worth one percent of a dollar.
Christianity is a religion.
using a computer is for working.
You are likely to find a cat in litter box. 
blue is a color.
Something you find in orbit is the moon.
Something that might happen while pretending is you forget.
wardrobes are used for storing clothes.
You are likely to find a shark in the Pacific Ocean.
Something you find in the universe is black holes.
Something you find at the opera is opera glasses.
An activity a maid can do is clean a house.
Something you find at Disneyland is Mickey mouse.
You are likely to find a cat in a pet store.
kissing is for showing affection.
taping a television show requires a VCR and a tape.
a flask is used for holding liquids.
south Dakota is a state.
making a phone call requires a phone number.
a restaurant table is for Eating at.
Brakes can slow cars.
A jihad is a holy war waged on behalf of Islam as a religious duty.
A reptile is an animal.
A police officer can direct traffic.
a beanie baby is a toy.
Something that might happen while driving a car is an accident.
Something that might happen when you see artifacts is you learn history.
plastics is a material.
If you want to use a television then you should have electricity.
Something you find on the porch is a rocking chair.
a car is for traveling. 
a murder is a crime.
Something you find in a building is offices.
Somewhere a knife can be is in a drawer.
snoring requires sleep.
a shovel can dig a hole.
You can use a Spanish restaurant to eat Spanish food.
Clothing is made of fabric.
Keys unlock doors.
If you want to eat lunch then you should have the food..
The effect of hearing singing is singing along.
A person wants compliments.
a person wants to be nice.
a cake is a dessert.
Sometimes driving your car causes accident.
walking the dog requires a leash and a dog.
Musicians make music.
If you want to go on the Internet then you should connect.
AIDS is a disease.
Something you find at a fork in the road is road signs.
water is transparent.
a passenger can board an airplane.
a dog cannot fly.
Somewhere a plant can be is on a windowsill.
An activity a duck can do is fly.
Working would make you want to have a rest.
You are likely to find a ficus in pots.
If you want to run errands then you should make a list.
If you want to print on the printer then you should turn the printer on.
Something that might happen when you play soccer is a goal is scored.
Something you find at a roadblock is police.
Sometimes singing causes a sore throat.
need would make you want to buy something.
You can use a soccer field to play soccer.
a shark is a fish that cant stop swimming.
A dog can chew a bone.
monopoly is a board game.
You can use a radio to listen to music.
a yard is used for playing.
If you want to have a party then you should invite some friends over.
Something that might happen as a consequence of computing a sum is getting an answer.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to a play is being entertained.
A retina is part of an eye.
You can use a window curtain to decorate a window.
A gardener can plant a flower.
You can use an eraser to correct mistakes.
Something you find in jail is convicts.
meditation is a way to relax.
You are likely to find a window in a building.
Something you find in a casino is slot machines.
If you want to get onto the web then you should have an Internet connection.
ford is a company which builds cars.
You can use a memo pad to write something down.
If you want to reach a tentative agreement then you should negotiate.
A poet writes poems.
Something you find in the oven is heating elements.
people can close doors.
Shirts are clothes.
squirrels are rodents.
You would wait your turn because you are polite.
an instrument triangle is used for making music.
riding a bicycle is for exercise.
paper is often made of wood.
Drugs can cloud the mind.
A passenger can board a train.
You are likely to find carpeting in a room.
You can use a condo to live.
a doormat is used for wiping your feet.
Something that might happen while playing Frisbee is you miss.
Something that might happen while serving customers is getting a tip.
kissing someone is for expressing love.
The ocean is blue.
If you want to buy food then you should go to a grocery store.
a barbecue is used for cooking food.
Something you find at a friend's house is your friends.
A desk is used for working.
A liquid is a substance that becomes the shape of its container.
a person wants to be helpful.
A ball is a sphere.
You are likely to find a potato in stew.
A tuba is a large musical instrument.
A bomb explodes.
Seattle is a city in Washington.
A world is a planet.
A man is singing. The man had dreadlocks.
If you want to have a checkup then you should visit the doctor.
Something that might happen as a consequence of hanging out at the bar is that you get drunk.
You can use a walk in closet to store your clothing.
there are seven continents on the earth.
Termites are insects.
Something you might do while having a rest is snore.
You are likely to find a cow in the countryside.
Something that might happen when you take a break is you drink a coke.
Something you need to do before you get onto the web is turn on your computer.
One of the things you do when you go to a film is buy popcorn.
The effect of playing games is fun.
You are likely to find an audience in a theater.
people can wind clocks.
You can use cotton to make clothes.
a typewriter is for typing letters.
Something you find under your bed is dust.
Something you find in a plane is a flight attendant.
You are likely to find a snake in the grass.
Tongues can taste food.
Wrenches are used to tighten bolts.
Something you find in orbit is a planet.
paying the bills requires money.
Something you find at a motel is Gideon's bible.
You would wash your car because it's dirty.
One of the things you do when you eat vegetables is chew them.
Something you find at the corner of two streets is a street sign.
water puts out fire.
If you want to dance then you should turn on the music.
Horses are used for transportation.
You can use a hockey puck to play hockey.
You are likely to find a flight terminal in airports.
a person doesn't want to be ill.
a grill is for cooking.
Something that might happen when you exercise is you drink water.
You are likely to find a kitten in a bed.
Having an illness would make you want to have a physical examination.
A trumpet is a musical instrument that is part of the brass section of the orchestra.
tomatoes are vegetables.
tigers are a kind of cat.
Something you find at a street corner is traffic lights.
You are likely to find a dish in a cabinet.
The effect of staying in bed is laziness.
a calculator adds numbers.
One of the things you do when you pay by credit card is sign your name.
Something you find in a meadow is a horse.
The effect of jumping rope is hopping.
You are likely to find a marmoset in a jungle.
Something you might do while sitting down is relaxing.
washing clothes is for having clean clothing.
remembering a phone number requires repeating it to yourself.
a fire truck can be red.
You are likely to find a launching platform in Florida.
the galaxy is part of the universe.
One of the things you do when you go for a walk is put on shoes.
Gambling can be addictive.
Something you find at the doctor is nurses.
If you want to take the bus then you should wait at a bus stop.
herbivores eat plants.
Pins are sharp.
Something that might happen when you breathe is you exhale.
If you want to send a criminal to prison then you should convict him.
You are likely to find a penny in your pocket.
burlap is a fabric.
Something you might do while making it grow is watering.
a deserted island is a lonely place.
tablecloths are used to cover tables.
You are likely to find car in a parking lot.
A monkey wrench.
A family is a group of people who live in the same house.
One of the things you do when you are sad is crying.
scissors can cut that paper.
a grain of sand is very small.
If you want to go for a run then you should put on some shoes.
Something you find in the universe is a sun.
the ocean contains salt water.
Something you might do while loving someone else is kissing them.
You are likely to find a lemur in forest.
blue is a color a person wants an happy life.
You are likely to find an eraser in a desk.
all cars have an engine.
You would sell your new book because you want money.
You are likely to find a grape in a fruit salad.
You are likely to find a potato in a garden.
You are likely to find a bishop in church.
You can use a baseball field to play baseball.
people can play games.
Something you find at an airport is x-ray machines.
Sometimes advancing into battle causes fear.
Metal can be shiny.
a bottle is for storing liquids.
You are likely to find plumbing in a building.
a viola is a musical instrument.
A university is a kind of school.
a boat is for fishing.
Something you might do while having an epileptic fit is fall down.
buying food is for having something to eat.
Something you might do while seeing exhibits is learn.
You are likely to find wheat in a field.
A banjo is a stringed instrument.
Something you find on your finger is a fingerprint.
A Venus fly trap is a plant that catches and digests bugs.
Alarm clocks wake you up.
A ball can roll down hill.
Something you find under a bridge is trolls.
spending money requires having money.
Cats can eat meat.
Something you find at a train station is trains.
You are likely to find a bee in any garden.
You are likely to find a beaver in a zoo.
a clothing closet is for hanging up your clothes.
You are likely to find a mouse in your kitchen.
An activity a mother can do is dress a child.
Something you find at the beach is people.
Something you find on the surface of the moon is craters.
taping a television show requires a VCR. 
Something you find in the universe is a star.
Highways are for cars to drive on.
orange is a color. 
You would get warm because you're cold.
Something you need to do before you go see a film is buy tickets.
If you want to purchase a cellular phone then you should have money.
Something you find in the purse is a wallet.
You can use a library to do research.
Something you find on a desktop is a computer.
the hen can lay an egg.
A person doesn't want to be rejected.
If you want to fly in an airplane then you should buy tickets.
Something that might happen while taping a television show is you get bored.
Michigan is a state.
France is a country.
Something you find in space is planets.
A skirt is a form of clothing that wraps around your waist and legs.
Something you find at a wedding is cake.
God is an abstract creation of humanity.
Oregon is a State.
examining a thing requires study.
Something you might do while going to a movie is buy popcorn.
dolphins are mammals.
Fruit can be eaten.
You would eat quickly because you are in a hurry.
A musical instrument is a device that produces pleasant sounds.
Something you find in a trunk is a spare tire.
Something that might happen when you find information is you learn something.
A person doesn't want to be in prison.
a home is for living.
The sun can shine bright.
You are likely to find a kitten in a pet shop.
Something you find on television is programs.
You are likely to find a waiting room in a hospital.
a toy ball is used for play.
Something you find in the cupboard is saucers.
You would wash your clothes because they're dirty.
Something you might do while celebrating is party.
You are likely to find a fox in the fields.
Sometimes catching mumps causes an illness.
One of the things you do when you go on a vacation is relax.
Something you might do while playing hockey is score a goal.
a person wants to succeed.
a lake is for swimming in.
If you want to ride a bike then you should have a bike.
Something you might do while walking in the rain is hold an umbrella.
If you want to have a physical examination then you should go to the doctor.
waiting in line requires time.
If you want to see old things then you should visit a museum.
passing a class requires study.
a program is a set of instructions designed to complete a task.
You can use a towel rack to hang towels.
reading a newspaper requires getting a newspaper.
Something that might happen when you go to school is learn something.
glue is sticky.
a person doesn't want to be fearful.
You are likely to find a sink in a kitchen.
You are likely to find a finger in hand.
you would sleep because you are tired.
a beetle is an insect.
One of the things you do when you fly a kite is let the string out.
A knife is sharp.
a prisoner can attempt an escape.
a person doesn't want to work hard.
You are likely to find a plate in the kitchen.
Sometimes cigarette smoking causes cancer.
Something you find in the ocean is water.
Pencils are used to draw with.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking a bath is getting wet.
Maps are used for navigation.
One of the things you do when you die is stop breathing.
Lisp is a programming language.
Something you find on your desk is a pencil sharpener.
Horse riding is a sport.
If you want to dive then you should go to the pool.
Somewhere a statue can be is in a museum.
Something that might happen while stopping your car is braking.
You are likely to find a wash cloth in a bathroom.
waiters work in restaurants.
Something that might happen when you stand in line is waiting.
a fountain pen is for writing.
hockey is sometimes played on ice.
Something you find atop the refrigerator is dust.
Something you find at a war is tanks.
a turtle can live a long time.
Nature is beautiful.
a wash cloth is used for cleaning.
An armchair is a chair with arms.
A glass can hold liquid.
The effect of running a marathon is exhaustion.
Shortest distance between two points is a straight line.
You can use a discotheque to dance.
God is an imaginary friend for grown ups.
Fruit is healthy.
Pizza is a circle of bread with tomato sauce and mozzarella cheese.
You are likely to find a fungus in wood.
A screwdriver is a tool.
You are likely to find a kitten in an animal shelter.
You are likely to find a shopping basket in a supermarket.
getting a contract requires negotiating.
biology is a science.
Something you find on the street is dirt.
Something you find at the office is copy machines.
Something that might happen when you hear music is dancing.
a teacher can teach students.
You can use wood to fence in a property.
An apple is a type of fruit.
You are likely to find a fungus in trees.
An awl is a tool used to make small holes in things.
The Earth rotates on an axis.
Fruits contain seeds.
a column may be in a newspaper.
Telnet is a program that allows you to login to another computer to run software there.
A rolling stone can gather no moss.
There are 60 minutes in an hour.
a grocer is used for selling food.
a helmet is a hat that protects your head.
Something you find at a zoo is cages.
a mortgage is a loan that is made and paid off over many years.
You are likely to find a drum in a band.
Basketball is a fast moving game.
Something you find at a park is picnic tables.
globes represent the earth.
You can use a town to live.
rowing is a good exercise.
Something you find in a car is a wheel.
a salad is food that is served.
Being a judge would make you want to hear testimony.
Sometimes attending a rock concert causes hearing loss.
You are likely to find a bus in a bus stop.
a safety pin is a useful fastener.
a person wants more leisure time.
one people is a person.
You are likely to find a monkey in the circus.
Something you find the refrigerator is milk.
Something you find in the oven is bread.
A basketball is filled with air.
a car can slow down.
One of the things you do when you make a phone call is talk.
Ice is a material.
You can use a locker room to change clothes.
a place to eat is used for eating.
A ranch has horses.
War is a fight between groups of people.
Something that might happen while having a shower is you get wet.
You can use farmland to grow food.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying a hamburger is having less money.
teaspoon is a spoon used at tee time.
Something you need to do before you act in a play is learn the lines.
a beanbag is for sitting down.
Something you find at a park is flowers.
You would fight inflation because you want to save some money.
Something that might happen as a consequence of waiting on tables is tips.
You are likely to find a screwdriver in a tool box.
You are likely to find an airplane in a hanger.
A letter is a nice way to correspond with a friend.
Something you find at fairgrounds is horses.
Something you find on the ground is grass.
Something that might happen as a consequence of talking to someone is friendship.
You would eat vegetables because you want vitamins.
Some cars are expensive.
You can use an electric razor to shave.
a garden hose is for watering plants.
an island is for vacation.
a glass is used for seeing through.
You would cook dinner because you want to eat it.
getting in line requires patience.
hummingbirds are small.
One of the things you do when you attend a classical concert is listen to the music.
You are likely to find a fluoride toothpaste in a bathroom.
People need to sleep.
Something you find in the newspaper is an ad.
penguins live in cold places. they waddle. they swim and eat fish. they live in herds.
a person doesn't want an itch.
Moons orbit planets.
Something that might happen when you watch a movie is CRY.
Switzerland is a country.
You would mail a letter because you want to communicate.
A tanker is a truck that carries liquids.
a lock is on a door.
life is a continuing cycle.
You can use a cutlery drawer to store knives.
An amplifier is a device that turns a weak electric signal into a powerful electric signal.
Something you need to do before you see a movie is buy a ticket.
Something that might happen while riding a bike is falling off.
Sometimes studying for a subject causes learning.
You are likely to find a fungus in warm damp place.
laughing at a joke requires a sense of humor.
Something you find in the closet is a skeleton.
Blood is usually red.
A credit card is made of plastic.
Something that might happen when you win a baseball game is cheering.
Something you might do while earning a living is work for yourself.
You are likely to find a blowfish in an aquarium.
You are likely to find an artery in your body.
Something that might happen while applying for a job is get the job.
Something you find at a zoo is zebra.
Something you might do while washing your clothes is getting wet.
Something you find in a garage is a ladder.
Something that might happen as a consequence of hearing music is dancing.
punching someone requires making a fist.
jumping rope is for fun.
Curiosity would make you want to learn about a subject.
wood may be carved.
learning requires study.
One of the things you do when you take a break is rest.
Something you find at an art show is artist.
A student wants to learn.
If you want to awake then you should set an alarm clock.
One of the things you do when you eat in a restaurant is leave a tip.
lead is very heavy.
You can use a table to eat at.
Something you find on a shelf is canned food.
A person doesn't want to wait.
You can use a hair dryer to dry your hair.
You are likely to find a crab in a seashore.
a box is for storing something in.
You would contemplate because you are confused.
You are likely to find a bathtub in a bathroom.
One of the things you do when you win a baseball game is celebrate.
You can use blanketing to cover yourself.
Summer can be very hot.
Fish live in the ocean.
children play games.
You can use a self adhesive label to stick to something.
writing a story requires an idea.
You are likely to find a snake in bushes.
Some mushrooms are poisonous.
Something that might happen as a consequence of passing your university exams is graduating.
You are likely to find a gazelle in an African savanna 
a hose is for watering the garden.
houses have walls.
a basement is below a house.
People read a newspaper.
royal flush.
Something that might happen as a consequence of watching the evening news is learn about current events.
You are likely to find a credit card wallet in a purse.
You would play a guitar because you want to make music.
Spoons are used to stir coffee.
Somewhere a body can be is in the morgue.
The effect of running twenty six miles is exhaustion.
Something you might do while remembering is smile.
Something you find in a library is a shelf.
If you want to spit then you should gather saliva.
You are likely to find a school in cities.
Something you might do while meeting girls is flirt.
having a physical exam requires a living body.
You would get wet because you want to be cool.
watching television is for entertainment.
You are likely to find a snake in the bible.
Something that might happen when you walk in the rain is you step in a puddle.
Something that might happen while eating breakfast in bed is you spill coffee.
Something that might happen while opening a bag of chips is it tears.
A necklace with a peace sign on it.
Something you might do while paying cash is count your money.
compassion would make you want to create something to help other people.
The effect of debating politics is numbness.
You are likely to find bread in a grocery store.
The effect of using a VCR is recording movies.
selling your new book requires interest.
If you want to drink then you should open your mouth.
a pan is used for cooking.
potatoes are vegetables.
a road is used for driving.
Something that might happen when you spit is you drool.
If you want to commit perjury then you should lie under oath.
Something you find under the table is legs.
a pad is for Writing on.
You are likely to find a kitten in the litter box.
Student's at library.
Space is a vacuum.
Newsweek is a magazine.
Something you find at school is books.
Something you find at a desk is a blotter.
Sometimes bathing causes someone to become clean.
taking an oath requires raising your right hand.
Something that might happen when you wait for someone is checking your watch.
If you want to see an exciting story then you should go to the movies.
Something that might happen when you get in line is waiting.
You are likely to find a tile in the bathroom.
a clerk can stock shelves.
the kitchen is part of our house.
a student can listen the teacher.
You can use an accordion to play music.
going to a play is for being entertained.
You are likely to find a train ticket in a train station.
a peach has a pit.
You are likely to find a rook in a chess set.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing the violin is music.
An engine is in a car.
men and women are different.
You are likely to find a folder in the filing cabinet.
If you want to eat a cookie then you should get a cookie.
a mountain is tall.
You are likely to find a ferret in a zoo.
If you want to have food then you should eat.
a playroom is for playing.
Peace is the opposite of war.
an attribute is for describing something.
Form follows function.
Melons are a sort of fruits.
Something you find on television is news.
Something that might happen as a consequence of finding a lost item is happiness.
Utah is a State.
Pineapples are a sort of fruits.
Something you find at a demonstration is a demonstrator.
Most cameras have a lens.
You are likely to find a human in an automobile.
You are likely to find a weasel in your chicken coop.
a person can have a car.
a notepad is for taking notes.
Something you find at a bar is beer.
You can use a harpsichord to make music.
people are humans.
You are likely to find a spray hose in a garden.
a party is for celebrating.
Something that might happen while taking the stand is testifying.
children grow.
You are likely to find a potato in Idaho.
If you want to wash clothes then you should go to the Laundromat.
If you want to have a physical exam then you should make an appointment with a doctor.
If you want to eat in a restaurant then you should make reservations.
Something you find at the opera is an orchestra.
farmers grow corn.
You are likely to find a pan in a cupboard.
a hair clip is for holding hair in place.
Cotton is a plant.
A person can water a plant.
Something you find at an airport is moving sidewalks.
a salesman can sell a car.
Something you find at the library is a card catalog.
You would cool off because it is hot.
Darts have sharp points.
Sailing is fun.
a drawer is for storage.
Something you might do while playing ball is catch a ball.
A leaf is part of a plant.
If you want to pay the bills then you should write a check.
You would play Frisbee because it is fun.
Something you might do while proving your physical endurance is hurt yourself.
Wind is air in motion.
You are likely to find an organ in church.
You are likely to find a beaver in The woods..
a pub is a place to buy intoxicating drinks.
coffee is served hot.
a tower is a high building.
a bullet is used for killing.
Canada is a political division of the earth.
some turtles can live over 100 years.
President Clinton is a democrat.
Something that might happen when you debate politics is get angry.
Playing cards is an activity.
ice cream melts.
Blade Runner is a famous science fiction movie.
Something that might happen as a consequence of sending e-mail is Spam. 
Trees grow in forests.
apples are good for you.
grilling is a healthy way to prepare meat for dinner.
Sometimes telling many people about something causes a rumor.
You are likely to find a door with a lock in a prison.
Something you find in a forest is a bear.
doing housework is for keeping a house clean.
Books contain stories.
a pistol is for shooting bullets.
purple is a color associated with royalty.
A policeman can direct traffic.
Something that might happen while loving someone else is trust.
If you want to compete against someone then you should be in a competition.
Milk comes from cows.
Something you find at your house is a couch.
cartoons would make you want to watch television.
You are likely to find a chess bishop in a chess game.
coffee is very hot.
a machine gun is a weapon.
going to a laundromat is for cleaning your clothing.
A singer sings.
going for a walk is for getting some fresh air.
Ships travel over water.
Something you find at a concert is a conductor.
You are likely to find a disease in a hospital.
Something you find in a plane is seats.
Horse riding can be dangerous.
a harp is used for making music.
Honda is a car.
a rocking chair is for sitting in.
Something you find in a laboratory is a mouse.
a kite is for flying.
e-mail is an example of asynchronous communication.
You are likely to find a hammer in a toolbox.
Something you might do while reading the newspaper is learning about current events.
a bookstore sells books.
Division is an operation that divides a number into portions.
girl can meet boy.
going on the Internet is for researching.
Somewhere a cup can be is on a table.
a desk is a place to put things.
Something you find in a house is a bathroom.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing football is injury.
You are likely to find a cat in pet shops.
a human being is another name for a person.
only woman can be mothers.
A knife can cut.
Playing darts is a hobby.
You can use a hair clip to keep hair in place.
The effect of meeting people is making new friends.
You are likely to find a glue stick in a desk.
Addition is a basic math skill.
reading to your children requires a book.
You are likely to find a mother in her home.
You can use a notepad to doodle.
An activity a teacher can do is assign homework.
You are likely to find a human in bed.
People can spend money.
Something you find at a demonstration is protesters. 
A jug is a container used to hold liquid.
Restaurants serve food.
Most dogs are cute.
Some plants are edible.
sparrow is a kind of bird.
running in a marathon is for exercise.
If you want to go to an opera then you should purchase tickets.
a musical instrument is used for making music.
parakeets are a type of bird.
Oil is slippery.
Something you find at a funeral is a mourner.
going to bed is for getting sleep.
humans usually have two hands.
You would go to the zoo because you want to see the animals.
going to work requires having a job to do.
Peace is good.
Somewhere a teenager can be is at the mall.
Something you find in a room is furniture.
Something that might happen when you forgive someone is you hug them.
Riding horses is fun.
German is a language.
If you want to sate your hunger then you should eat some food.
green is a color. 
Something that might happen as a consequence of losing consciousness is falling on the ground.
tuna is a fish.
using a computer is for playing a game.
ice cream is good with pie.
a garden hose is used for watering a garden.
Something that might happen as a consequence of joining the army is you go to war.
Something that might happen when you take a bath is getting clean.
Something that might happen as a consequence of testing your strength is pulling a muscle.
You can use a telephone booth to make a phone call.
A screwdriver is used for turning screws.
a pig is an animal.
a flute is for playing music.
You are likely to find cabinets in the kitchen.
Books are often stored on shelves.
You are likely to find a pencil sharpener in a classroom.
The first thing you do when you wake up is open your eyes.
an ottoman is used for sitting.
an island is a body of land surrounded by water.
You are likely to find a grape in a bunch.
Something you find on the table is a vase of flowers.
a tooth is used for biting.
A bike has two wheels.
having a physical exam is for checking health.
You are likely to find a doormat in front of a door.
Something you might do while eating breakfast in bed is watching TV.
You can use a typewriter to write a letter.
Teeth are used for chewing.
lawyers can object in court.
You are likely to find a paper clip in your desk drawer.
a tile is for covering a wall.
children play with their toys.
the lion is a carnivore.
You would spend money because you want to buy.
tanning lotion is used for preventing sunburn.
Canada is north of the United States.
Fruit is edible.
a man is a human.
a puppy is a dog.
a woman is a human.
You would talk to someone because you want to communicate.
a lane is used for driving.
Something you find at the beach is girls.
fire can destroy all things.
going to a laundromat is for washing your cloths.
A clock is a device for measuring time.
Something that might happen while playing basketball is dribbling.
One of the things you do when you take a shower is get clean.
You are likely to find a shop in a mall.
You are likely to find a fungus in a dark place.
oceans are large bodies of water.
Something you find under the table is a cat.
pool is a game.
An Internet is a network of communicating computers.
people like to ride horses.
glass breaks easily.
You would laugh at a joke because it is funny.
A biped is a two-legged animal.
India is a country.
You are likely to find a garden in a yard.
Hockey is a popular sport in Canada.
a family is a good thing to have.
Something you find at a park is a human.
Something you find at the park is birds.
A coin is a small metal disk that is used as money.
Val Kilmer is an actor.
a table is a physical object.
Something you might do while scoring a homer is run around the bases.
The effect of competing is someone wins.
a highway is a type of road.
Something you find at a library is magazines.
Something you find in a country is a cow.
One of the things you do when you snore is annoy your spouse.
Ice cream is a frozen dairy treat.
a team is a group of people trying to solve a common problem.
a back yard is used for playing.
hearing the news is for information.
You are likely to find a cubicle in office.
A mop can clean the floor.
Something that might happen while paying by check is signing your name.
Something you find at the opera is a stage.
Film is a medium that holds many pictures.
Somewhere a person can be is in the office.
a clothing shelf is used for storing clothes.
a story is for entertainment.
A galaxy is an enormous group of stars.
If you want to pass a class then you should study hard.
You are likely to find an iron in a laundry room.
You can use woolen fabric to make clothes.
A virus is a program that replicates.
Something you might do while visiting other countries is sightseeing.
scientists can prove a theory.
Something you might do while visiting an art gallery is look at a painting.
You can use a mug to drink coffee.
Something you find on your desk is business cards.
going to the hairdresser is for getting your hair cut.
boats sail in water.
a bus coin slot is used for paying bus fare.
Something that might happen when you have friends over is you talk to them.
Something you find on the floor is a cat.
Some buildings are large.
Something you find in the kitchen is a blender.
The effect of having food is eating.
Something you need to do before you use a calculator is turn it on.
Something you might do while holidaying shop is buying gifts.
You can use a finger to point.
Sometimes cutting your hair causes your hair to be shorter.
If you want to have friends over then you should invite them.
Something you find in the countryside is farms.
Something you find over the rainbow is blue skies.
Earth's surface is covered by mostly water.
You are likely to find a rented apartment in a city.
an airplane seat is used for sitting in.
Religions have caused many wars.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in the sky.
a shampoo and conditioner is for washing hair.
You are likely to find a grape in vineyard. 
Something that might happen while becoming inebriated is falling over.
If you want to answer questions then you should know the answers.
a glassed roof is for greenhouses.
You can use a spoon to stir.
The effect of waiting in line is frustration.
An activity water can do is flow.
Sometimes eating vegetables causes you to have better health.
Something you might do while earning a living is go to work.
You are likely to find a store shelf in a store.
You are likely to find a crab in the bay.
fun would make you want to socialize.
If you want to buy something for a loved one then you should go shopping.
a vegetable garden is used for growing vegetables.
No man is an island.
Music can soothe the savage beast.
Fire can destroy forests.
You are likely to find a sister in your family.
lettuce is a vegetable.
a cigarette is used for smoking.
Something you might do while running twenty six miles is drink water.
One of the things you do when you eat in a restaurant is look at the menu.
The effect of dancing the samba is fun.
Sometimes studying causes learning.
A visitor can ring the doorbell.
If you want to visit other countries then you should have a passport.
viewing a film at home requires a VCR.
a clothing store changing room is used for trying on clothes.
If you want to have a shower then you should go into the bathroom.
Something that might happen while driving is listening to the radio.
there is water in the glass.
astopwatch can time a race.
You are likely to find a mouse in the basement.
trees provide shade.
You are likely to find a ficus in the yard.
A bishop is a chess piece that can only move diagonally.
Tobacco is a plant.
If you want to eat then you should buy food.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
The effect of taking a course is learning.
Something you find at a home is a wife.
a harmonica is an instrument.
Nylon is used for making clothes.
a person doesn't want to be humiliated.
MasterCard is a type of credit card.
You are likely to find a sloth in a South American jungle.
nets are used to catch things.
Sometimes setting a cup on a table causes a spill.
You can use an office building to work.
a dining room is used for eating in.
a person wants friends to be happy.
a food store is for buying food.
You are likely to find a floor in a house.
a need for money would make you want to earn a living.
You are likely to find a telephone in a house.
a drawer is for storing things.
If you want to have a checkup then you should call the doctor.
Earth is the third planet in our solar system.
Sometimes bathing causes cleanliness.
Something you find in a classroom is a teacher.
If you want to have an examination then you should go to the doctor.
a person wants desire.
a person wants sleep.
You are likely to find a grape in a refrigerator.
a tourniquet is used to stop bleeding.
Something you might do while improving yourself is meditate.
A rubber stamp.
parties are fun.
People learn from each other.
going to a play requires tickets.
The effect of playing Frisbee is having fun.
a street is used for walking.
You can use a carrier bag to carry.
A bomb can destroy a city.
Russian is a language.
playing tennis requires a tennis racket.
If you want to pay the bills then you should earn some money.
A ball rolls.
Work is not fun.
Something you might do while playing chess is checkmate.
Something that might happen when you have a conversation is you talk.
A human has one body.
Vegetables are plants.
Somewhere a cat can be is in a pound.
a supermarket is for buying groceries.
going into a trance is for meditating.
Netscape Communicator is a web browser.
You can use a rented flat to live in.
A law is an obligatory rule of conduct.
A petal is part of a flower.
A bill is a duck's mouth.
a teacher can mark papers.
a street is used for driving on.
A circle is a shape.
Sailing is a sport.
The effect of skiing is broken legs.
a tub is for taking a bath.
The sun can burn your skin.
One of the things you do when you see old things is become nostalgic.
a bell is used for getting attention.
A fan is a tool for moving air.
lizards are cold-blooded animals.
Ontario is a province in Canada.
Something you find at home is your couch.
turquoise is a stone used in jewelry.
Apple juice is a drink.
Something you find in a waste bin is trash.
going on a vacation is for Relaxation.
A submarine is a ship built to go under the water.
a horseshoe is a symbol of good luck.
Buddhism is the religion founded by the Buddha.
Something you find under the table is a dog.
Something you find at a school is blackboards.
a tree is alive.
Something you find at the park is squirrels.
Something you find at a conference is tables.
Sometimes fishing causes fish to die.
Virginia is a state.
Fencing is a sport that requires high quality safety equipment.
Something that might happen when you run twenty-six miles is get tired.
Sometimes having a rest causes rejuvenation a person wants to be smiled at.
You are likely to find a crab in a tidal pool.
Something that might happen when you shop is spending of money.
companies can market their products.
BeOS is an operating system.
You are likely to find a kettle in a kitchen.
Something you find at a bus depot is bus.
Sometimes sleeping causes dreams.
a bookshelf is for storing books..
Something you find under a bridge is water.
Something you find at a friend's wedding is your friend.
Milk is a liquid.
vinyl is a synthetic fiber.
Something you find in the refrigerator is eggs.
Two horses in a field. Their color is chestnut. They are friendly with each other.
People sleep at night.
Nylon is a type of fabric.
a TV is for entertainment.
If you want to see your favorite show then you should turn on the television.
Doctors use a stethoscope to listen to your heartbeat.
You would take the stand because you are a witness.
an eraser holder is for holding an eraser.
You are likely to find a horse in the farm.
Backgammon is a game of chance.
Relativity is a college level subject.
A square is a shape.
Water is blue.
Something you find in a garage is a lawnmower.
hockey is a sport of skills and precisions.
You are likely to find the United States in North America.
You are likely to find a brass instrument in a band.
A race of people is a group which has slight consistent differences from other races.
Garlic is an ingredient used in preparing food.
A baby boy horse is a colt.
An airplane is a form of transportation.
Meditation is a emotional healer.
Atropina belladona is a plant that is poisonous.
You would make a shopping list because you are forgetful.
Something you find at a zoo is tigers.
snowboarding is a sport done on snow.
A clipboard is used to hold papers.
You are likely to find a hair shaping gel in the bathroom.
plants can produce oxygen.
Irish setter is a dog used to hunt wild birds.
Cake is sweet.
You would go to another place in the same city cheaply because you want to save your money for other things.
You are likely to find an editorial in a newspaper.
Sadness is an emotional and physical pain.
smoking can cause cancer.
Something you might do while watching a TV show is laugh.
Good can battle evil.
A mouse is a mammal.
You are likely to find an ergonomic chair in an office.
You are likely to find a toilet tank in a bathroom.
a person wants nice furniture.
You can use a pool to get out of the heat.
If you want to play a game then you should know the rules.
a person wants to be amused.
Apples grow on Apple trees.
Somewhere plants can be is in the garden.
You would cut your hair because your hair is too long.
robins' eggs are blue.
Yo-Yos are a toy.
Something you find on the beach is seaweed.
Something you find at the post office is a stamp.
horseback riding can be fun.
You can use a symphony hall to listen to music.
You are likely to find a stall in a barn.
Something that might happen when you go to a laundromat is clean clothes.
If you want to clean clothing then you should do the laundry.
Something you find in the air is clouds.
You would buy food because you are hungry.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having a heart attack is dying.
An artery is a blood vessel.
A mother takes care of her children.
A fan moves air.
If you want to go to the mall then you should get in the car.
a person doesn't want to burn.
Sometimes surfing causes getting wet.
Bottles are containers for liquids.
If you want to eat then you should find some food.
You would bring home some fish because you want to eat it.
You are likely to find a movie theater seat in a movie theater.
Jupiter is the fifth planet from the sun.
All chairs are furniture.
Something you find in a country is land.
Something you find at the front door is doorbell.
If you want to leave the line then you should walk away.
Something you might do while getting exercise is sweating.
Something you find at a motel is rooms.
Something that might happen as a consequence of living a life is happiness.
Carnivores eat meat.
You are likely to find a rosebush in a nursery.
exercising is for Feeling good.
You are likely to find a front room in a house.
fact is a 4 letter word.
You are likely to find a mouse in a mousetrap.
setting a cup on a table requires a table and a cup.
a person doesn't want injuries.
a mediator can settle disputes.
One of the things you do when you analyze something is think.
Something you find on a desk is notes.
A holiday is a special day.
If you want to talk to someone then you should speak up.
You are likely to find a potato in the ground.
The effect of viewing a video is entertainment.
Meditation is a state of reflection and contemplation.
a piccolo is used for making music.
You can use a chess set to play chess.
sending e-mail requires computers.
a stringed instrument is used for making music.
Something that might happen when you get some money from someone is you thank them.
Knowledge is a good thing.
Something that might happen when you go to a concert is you hear music.
Something you find at Disneyland is rides.
You are likely to find a human in a library.
Writing is a way to store information.
Something that might happen while celebrating is you eat cake.
Something you find at an opera is music.
You would strike a match because you want to light a cigarette.
time is a linear concept.
Something that might happen while attending school is you have fun.
Something you find in a desk is paperwork.
Sometimes sleeping causes you to have fun.
a fish can live underwater.
If you want to sleep then you should get in bed.
A painter can paint a house.
Something you find at a drive-in movie is cars.
One of the things you do when you apply for a job is fill out the application form.
Something that might happen when you go to another place in the same city cheaply is you walk.
You are likely to find a shampoo and conditioner in the shower.
A box is a container.
If you want to take finals then you should attend a class.
If you want to go to get a haircut then you should go to the barber.
shoes are worn on feet.
Tea contains caffeine.
You are likely to find a container in a refrigerator.
sending e-mail is for communication.
If you want to hear the news then you should turn on the radio.
A turtle has a hard shell.
Somewhere a town can be is in a state.
a bucket is used for carrying liquids.
You are likely to find a stepladder in a garage.
If you want to go fishing then you should get some bait.
If you want to dream then you should go to sleep.
You are likely to find a jar in a pantry.
Something that might happen while teaching other people is learning about yourself.
acting in a play is for fun.
Something that might happen when you have a bath is being clean.
You are likely to find a French restaurant in a city.
getting something requires asking for it.
Dice can be used for gambling.
One of the things you do when you play poker is bluff.
oceans are deep.
If you want to compete then you should train.
Something that might happen when you fight the enemy is dying.
If you want to make friends then you should smile.
Something that might happen when you do the housework is you vacuum.
Something you find in bed is a sleeping person.
Something you might do while listening to the radio is dance.
You would reproduce because you want to have children.
being in a hurry would make you want to eat in a fast food restaurant.
a person doesn't want to crash their car.
people vote in elections.
You would sleigh ride because it is fun.
Something that might happen when you add up numbers is you find the sum.
You can use a hot faucet to get hot water.
You are likely to find a helium balloon in the circus.
If you want to get drunk then you should drink alcohol.
Something that might happen while taking the bus is you pay the fare.
a person doesn't want to be murdered.
You are likely to find a cellar in a house.
Something you find on a boat is a mast.
Something that might happen as a consequence of reading a book is you learn things.
dogs make good pets.
a globe is a representation of earth.
People live at home.
Something you find on the subway is passengers.
a saloon is used for drinking.
Something that might happen while attending a lecture is you learn something.
Something you find at an opera is a tenor.
A television is a machine that receives pictures and sounds.
a toothbrush has bristles.
a printer is used for printing.
Something that might happen when you obstruct justice is being arrested.
flowers smell good.
You are likely to find a T-shirt in a closet.
Children are young humans.
Something you find at a party is balloons.
A coffin is a box that holds a dead body.
If you want to get a divorce then you should Get married.
winter is a season.
You are likely to find fast food in fast food restaurants.
Something you find in a plane is a barf bag.
You can use a weapon to hurt someone.
A truck is a vehicle.
Dinosaurs are extinct.
A project is a task that accomplishes something.
you are likely to find a washcloth in the bathroom.
a hurricane is a storm.
You can use a baseball stadium to play baseball.
One of the things you do when you jump at the chance is accept the offer.
You can use sand to make glass.
Red Hat is a Linux distribution.
You are likely to find a science in a University.
Pink Floyd is a band.
You are likely to find a school cafeteria in a school.
Something that might happen when you do a crossword puzzle is you make a mistake.
You are likely to find a potato in the produce section of the grocery store.
Nevada is a State.
mechanics fix cars.
meditation is a way to learn to be with yourself.
having food requires buying food.
You are likely to find the English Channel in Europe. 
If you want to listen to the radio then you should have a radio.
Something you might do while eating ice cream is you have fun.
If you want to type then you should use your fingers.
Religion is a subjective created mythology.
A woman can chair a committee.
Something that might happen while driving your car is you have fun.
You are likely to find a small dog in kennel.
One of the things you do when you fly a kite is run.
cooking a meal is for feeding the family.
Something you find at an airport is a control tower.
Sometimes waiting in line causes impatience.
If you want to lose consciousness then you should be hit in the head.
TV watching is a passive activity.
Something you find at a church is a steeple.
Something you need to do before you chop firewood is get an axe.
You are likely to find a mouse in a trap.
You would play soccer because you want to kick a ball.
Something you find in a bus is people.
bridges can cross rivers.
Something you find at a meeting is people.
You are likely to find a dog in a park.
You are likely to find a heifer in the barnyard.
You are likely to find a gazelle in the savanna.
a person doesn't want an accident.
Something you find in a field is grass.
having an asthma attack requires having asthma.
You are likely to find a human in a office.
You are likely to find a lizard in the trees.
Something you might do while driving a car is stop at stop signs.
Something you find at an opera is singers.
A rifle is a type of gun.
You are likely to find a main entrance in buildings.
Something that might happen while checking vital signs is taking a pulse.
If you want to find a lost item then you should search for a lost item.
The last thing you do when you leave the house is lock the door.
You are likely to find a nerve in your body.
Sometimes giving a gift causes awkwardness.
a peace sign necklace.
You are likely to find a snake in the woods.
Coins are made of metal.
a cloud is made of water vapor.
Something you need to do before you wait your turn is stand in a line.
Something you find at a church is worshipers. 
You would clean your clothes because you want to smell good.
People can voice an opinion.
Cheese is a dairy product that comes from cows' milk.
a director chair is used for sitting.
cigarette smoking is bad for you.
You would bathe because you are dirty.
a forklift is for lifting heavy objects.
You are likely to find a barbecue restaurant in the city.
Something you might do while playing basketball is bounce the ball.
conducting a trial requires a judge.
many people live in a city.
Something you might do while playing tennis is serve a ball.
You are likely to find card in a deck.
You would punch someone because you want to hurt them.
playing a game of chess is for a challenge.
The effect of getting a good grade is satisfaction.
A person does not want to be poisoned.
The effect of passing a course is moving on.
Sometimes going to sleep causes dreams.
You are likely to find an article in a newspaper.
You can use a family room to watch TV.
a disposable razor is used for shaving your legs.
You are likely to find a lobby in a hotel.
Something you need to do before you eat an apple is wash it.
A spout is used to pour liquids.
People are basically good.
An activity a dog can do is run.
students can master subjects.
Something you might do while going to a baseball game is eat hot dogs. 
A xylophone is a percussion instrument.
An activity an employer can do is pay employees.
Something you find in the universe is a planet.
Something that might happen while attending a lecture is you fall asleep.
You are likely to find a book in a bookshelf.
Something that might happen as a consequence of making friends is a good feeling.
You are likely to find a hinged door in your own house.
Sometimes acting in a play causes pride.
If you want to feed your family then you should buy some groceries.
If you want to watch the evening news then you should have a television.
Something you find under your bed is shoes.
Something you might do while having a haircut is talk with the barber.
smoking is not good to the health.
seeing art is for Education.
Something you find at a toy store is Barbie.
A comb has teeth.
Ink stains clothes.
You are likely to find a school in any town.
Something that might happen when you study is learning.
person is part of a society.
A basement is a room under a house.
Something you need to do before you live is be born.
a glasses is used for correcting vision.
An island is land surrounded by water.
Dogs can dig holes.
You would make a phone call because you want to talk to someone.
playing the violin requires practice.
Dice are cubes used in gambling.
Something that might happen as a consequence of smoking cigarettes is lung cancer.
You are likely to find a cold faucet in a bathroom.
Something you find in class is books.
A person can catch cold.
You can use a purse to hold money.
Something you find at fairgrounds is a Ferris wheel.
bringing suit requires hiring a lawyer.
the viola is the only instrument that uses the alto clef.
one medal of honor.
You are likely to find a human in town.
Aluminum is a metal.
You are likely to find a lens in the camera.
One of the things you do when you go to a restaurant is eat.
Something you find at the gym is a weight machine.
If you want to take a break then you should stop working.
some people sing.
You would read because you want to learn.
A toe is part of a foot.
The effect of lighting a match is starting a fire.
Holland is a country.
Mammals have hair.
Montana is a State.
a grocer can stock the shelves.
a hairdressing salon is for Having your hair cut.
a person wants admiration.
You are likely to find a gazelle in the African savanna.
Our solar system is part of the milky way.
Perl is a programming language.
playing a game with your friends is for fun.
bad things can happen to good people.
a person doesn't want to break a bone.
An elbow is part of an arm.
a foot is for Walking on.
chefs can cook meals.
A musician can record a song.
a piece of food is for Eating.
Plants need water to grow.
You are likely to find a human in a jail.
Canada is in North America.
having a party requires inviting people.
Spanish is a language.
An architect designs buildings.
apple pie is a dessert.
Sleep is always a good thing.
a chess piece is for playing chess.
You would surf the web because you need information.
humans have eyes.
If you want to watch a TV show then you should turn on the television.
A Joey is a baby kangaroo.
taking a break is for Resting.
A tetrahedron is a pyramid formed by four triangles.
a piccolo is a musical instrument.
a dining area is for eating.
One of the things you do when you take an exam is answer questions.
An MP3 is a song file.
a dumbbell is an item used to exercise muscles.
You would go for a swim because You are hot.
A person doesn't want to be mugged.
C is an example of a programming language.
Axes chop wood.
A rubber duckie.
Age is a period of existence.
walking requires legs.
Something you find at dinner is plates.
A walk on the beach is usually relaxing.
You are likely to find an illness in a hospital.
Something you find at your house is a pet.
Something you find on the fridge is magnets.
a rubber chicken is a prop used in comedy.
You are likely to find a blow dryer in a bathroom.
The effect of taking a break is rest.
Something you find at a hockey game is hockey sticks.
People are sometimes cruel.
Animals eat foods.
A pub is for drinking beer.
baking a cake requires an oven.
Something you find on the table is a fork.
watching a movie is for entertainment.
cooking is for food preparation.
Sometimes falling causes pain.
love can hurt.
You are likely to find a TV in a house.
Somewhere a spoon can be is in the kitchen.
You are likely to find a furniture dresser in a bedroom.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in a dog pound.
a cat can catch a mouse.
a girl is holding a puppy.
Sometimes riding a bicycle causes sweat.
Some animals can be dangerous.
Something that might happen when you go to a movie is eat popcorn.
You are likely to find a curtain in a window.
Something you find at a bowling alley is bowling lanes.
Something that might happen when you wash your car is you have fun.
Something that might happen as a consequence of passing a class is graduation.
Quartz is a mineral.
your brain is used for thinking.
a washcloth is used for washing your face.
A student can fail a test.
An activity a bird can do is sing.
The effect of waging war is death.
One of the things you do when you look through a telescope is adjust the focus.
You are likely to find a garden in the back yard.
Something you find in a car is a radio.
Something you need to do before you become a scuba diver is train.
Sometimes repairing an umbrella causes embarrassment.
You are likely to find a potato in potato salad.
Cheese is made of milk.
You are likely to find a dog in a doghouse.
Miami is a city in Florida. 
A person can pay on a bill.
Meditation is very relaxing.
If you want to play a game of chess then you should have an opponent.
Granite is a very hard type of rock.
A coin is a piece of metal money.
rats are rodents.
Honey is sweet.
sewing is for making clothing.
Something that might happen when you take an oath is put your hand on the bible.
a brick row house is used for living in.
Vampires drink blood.
a forklift is used to move heavy objects.
a satellite is in orbit.
waxed dental floss is for flossing your teeth.
Fish live in lakes.
Something you find at a concert is musical instruments.
Something you find in the space shuttle is computers.
a tool is for fixing things.
A lip may be below the mouth.
Somewhere a pen can be is in a pocket.
an instrument is used for making music.
An activity a teacher can do is answer questions.
horses are beautiful animals that have helped humans for many years.
Sometimes discovering the truth causes more sadness.
You are likely to find a hair in a hairbrush.
Books can be written.
insurance is a contract that provides coverage of losses.
Sometimes remembering something causes pain.
The effect of learning is gaining knowledge.
You can use a sky to fly a kite.
An abelian group is a group that is commutative.
If you want to wait tables then you should wash your hands.
washing your car requires soap and water.
A sister is a sibling.
British Columbia is a province of Canada.
a person doesn't want the smell bad.
You can use a cottage to live in.
Heat does not rise.
Burlap is a sturdy fabric.
Something you need to do before you go to bed is brush your teeth.
brakes can stop the car.
dancing is for Fun.
A word is a sequence of letters that means something.
Something you might do while driving your car is listen to the radio.
If you want to go to a restaurant then you should have money.
cockroaches are insects.
Venus is a planet in our solar system.
a musical instrument is used for playing music.
You are likely to find a highlighter pen in the desk.
Something you might do while going to the hairdresser is reading a magazine.
golden retrievers are a breed of dog.
Something that might happen while driving to work is you listen to the radio.
You are likely to find a blowfish in Japan.
kissing someone is for love.
Sherlock Holmes is a famous fictional detective.
You are likely to find an organ in church.
If you want to water a plant then you should get some water.
Something you find in the ocean is salt water.
A parkway is a road.
spending money requires earning money.
a linen is for a bed.
Something you need to do before you study for a subject is open a book.
Science is an art which deals in facts.
Something you need to do before you sleep is go to bed.
Dogs like to play with Frisbees. 
You are likely to find a toothbrush bristle in your toothbrush.
You are likely to find a gentleman in church.
fire can destroy a house.
keys can start a car.
Japanese is a human language.
You can use a round trip ticket to travel.
a mug is for drinking from.
a person doesn't want to be a failure.
a star is a sun.
Movies are often entertaining.
a person wants playfulness.
A bed is often soft.
a person doesn't want to be interrupted.
Something you might do while going to a laundromat is wash clothes.
Rain can fall from the sky.
You would buy something for a loved one because it is their birthday.
You are likely to find a beaver in Canada.
Sometimes climbing causes you to fall.
You are likely to find a government in a country.
You are likely to find a suburban shopping mall in a suburb.
a temple is for praying.
Mice can eat cheese.
a cereal bowl is used for eating cereal.
Something you find in a closet is dust.
Something that might happen while dreaming is rapid eye movement.
Something that might happen when you have an asthma attack is panic.
A car travels on a road.
Something you find on the street is pedestrians.
Dallas is a city.
The saxophone is a wind instrument.
If you want to go for a walk then you should stand up.
If you want to go to a performance then you should purchase tickets.
One of the things you do when you eat a cookie is chewing.
Plants need water to live.
Something you might do while having lunch is eat some food.
Something that might happen when you have an epileptic fit is biting the tongue.
a fly can fly.
You can use a bar service to get a drink.
Language is used for communication.
Satellites can orbit the earth.
You can use a toothbrush head to clean your teeth.
Something you find under a desk is the floor.
You are likely to find a deodorant in the bathroom.
a television is an appliance found in a home.
Something you find in a shoe is a foot.
morning is a subset of day.
Something you find on the table is table cloth.
You are likely to find a marmot in a forest.
A globe is a three dimensional map of the Earth.
Something that might happen while watching a film is crying.
every part is also a whole.
Something you need to do before you drive to work is start the car.
If you want to attend a rock concert then you should have a ticket.
You are likely to find a potato in a microwave.
A campsite is a place for camp.
Something you find at an opera is a fat lady.
You are likely to find jewelry in a jewelry box.
Something you might do while watching TV is fall asleep.
hydrogen is a gas.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking a shower is getting wet.
You are likely to find a human in an office building.
a kitchenette is a small kitchen.
There are sixty seconds in a minute.
a spa is for relaxation.
Airplanes have wings.
A moisturizer is a cream applied to your skin to prevent your skin from drying out.
One of the things you do when you check vital signs is check for a pulse.
You can use burlap to make a bag.
a pistol is a weapon.
Something you find at a funeral is casket.
tennis is a game.
You would wash clothes because you want to have clean clothes.
Something you find in a bed is a person.
IBM is a manufacturer of information processing devices.
You are likely to find shampoo in the shower.
Lemurs are from Madagascar.
a person doesn't want to wreck their car.
people can live on earth.
a check in counter is for checking out.
One of the things you do when you bury the cat is cry.
You are likely to find a blowfish in a Japanese restaurant.
coke is a kind of drink.
You are likely to find a wine list in the restaurant.
You would buy a house because you want to live in it.
Some houses are large.
A piano has 88 keys.
You are likely to find a human in a car.
honesty would make you want to take the stand.
Something you find in the fridge is orange juice.
viewing a film at home requires electricity.
Something you find at your house is a family room.
Buddhists meditate.
You are likely to find a religious tract in a church.
Something you need to do before you play poker is get a deck of cards.
a sheet of paper is for writing on.
Rifles are a kind of gun.
If you want to walk the dog then you should have a leash.
dynamite is an explosive.
Some flowers are fragrant.
Minesweeper is a game included in certain versions of Microsoft Windows.
going to bed is for sleep.
Arizona is a state.
Horses are good at jumping.
Microphones amplify sound.
Somewhere soap can be is in a shower.
A horse is very strong.
Microphones amplify voices.
a person doesn't want to be confused.
A woman can captain a ship.
Seaweed is a plant that lives in the sea.
Ice can cool a drink.
fruit is good for health.
Sometimes rain causes flooding.
A grin is a kind of smile that shows your teeth.
a supermarket is for shopping.
Aesthetics is a branch of philosophy concerned with the beauty in art.
Somewhere food can be is at the store.
sleepiness would make you want to go to bed.
a cat can hunt birds.
a stethoscope is a device that many doctors wear.
Something that might happen while having a party is getting drunk.
Ice cream is a tasty treat.
Something you find in the kitchen is pans.
You can use a bridge to cross over a body of water.
If you want to play games then you should find some friends and play.
You are likely to find a crab in tide pools. 
some people live in the country.
You are likely to find a flute in a music store.
Somewhere a car can be is on the road.
Something you might do while attending a meeting is taking notes.
Something you find at a military base is a soldier. 
Something that might happen as a consequence of procreating is having children.
Something you find on a boat is sailors.
If you want to hear the news then you should turn on the TV.
a dog is used for companionship.
Guitars make music.
plants grow in soil.
Sometimes running a marathon causes heart attacks.
Cats are often kept as pets.
You are likely to find a gazelle in a forest.
Backgammon is a board game.
a person wants world peace.
You are likely to find an eraser in schools.
playing basketball is for fun.
a star is very hot.
Something you find under a desk is carpet.
washing your clothes is for removing dirt.
Something you find at an art show is sculpture.
If you want to open a business then you should have a business plan.
If you want to play chess then you should learn the rules.
Something you find at a bar is stools.
You are likely to find a saloon in the old west.
Something you find in a street is an automobile.
You can use a fitting room to try clothes.
You are likely to find a grape in a bowl of fruit.
Squash is a kind of vegetable.
Cotton is a natural fiber.
You can use a party to meet new people.
You are likely to find a fungus in the refrigerator.
Something that might happen while going to bed is you brush your teeth.
You can use music to relax yourself.
Something you find in the ocean is lobster.
You can use a squash court to play squash on.
Something you find at a roadblock is a police car.
a clock is used to measure time.
Something you might do while attending a rock concert is dance.
A chair usually has four legs.
Something you need to do before you go to a restaurant is make a reservation.
You are likely to find a chess board in a game room.
If you want to have a bath then you should turn on the water.
The earth is not a perfect sphere.
You are likely to find a swamp in Florida.
You would print on the printer because I need a hard copy.
You are likely to find a hairbrush in the bathroom.
If you want to go to bed then you should take off your clothes.
Something that might happen when you read a magazine is you get ideas.
Something you find in a garage is an automobile.
Something that might happen when you surprise someone is shock.
a person doesn't want sickness.
Something that might happen when you have a shower is you drop the soap.
You are likely to find a lizard in a pet store.
Something that might happen when you do some exercises is stretch.
A bidet is a machine that helps people to get cleaner.
The effect of emptying your bladder is good.
A president governs a nation.
The effect of going on the stage is joy.
A girl is a young woman.
You can use a key chain to keep keys together.
Something you find on a roof is antenna.
A tower is tall.
Dreidel is a game played at Hanukkah. 
Fire can burn wood.
typing requires fingers.
You are likely to find a mouse in a mouse hole.
A falling star is a meteor which is burning up in the earth's atmosphere.
a coin slot is for Putting a coin in.
a person doesn't want cancer.
You are likely to find a stream in the forest.
Pesto is a sauce that is green in color.
You are likely to find a bidet in bathroom.
watching a TV show is for learning.
Something that might happen while taking finals is studying.
Lotus is an instance of a company that makes data processing software.
You are likely to find a mouse in your attic.
an armchair is for sitting in.
You are likely to find an apple tree in the backyard.
Joy is a state of transcendent happiness.
stopping your car requires brakes.
Something you might do while washing your clothes is add your detergent.
Something you might do while using a television is change the channel.
a woodwind is a musical instrument that is blown.
The trombone is a brass instrument.
a tool is for making things.
A trumpet is an instrument that makes music.
A pillowcase is a cover for a pillow.
Something you might do while smoking is light a cigarette.
An activity a player can do is play games.
Something you might do while communicating is talk.
Hockey is a winter game played on ice.
A leg is part of a table.
You are likely to find a dentist chair in a dentist office.
Singing is an activity that many people enjoy.
a bag is for carrying things.
giving a plug requires advertisement.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in a nest.
A stethoscope is a medical instrument.
You are likely to find a beaver in the water.
Something that might happen as a consequence of swimming is you get wet.
Somewhere food can be is in the oven.
television is a good way to spend time.
Something you find on a boat is a steering wheel.
Something that might happen as a consequence of scoring a home run is you win the game.
a bathroom is for taking a bath.
a chicken can lay eggs.
An activity a mailman can do is deliver mail.
You can use a bell to ring.
soaking in a hot spring is for relaxation.
cats walk on four legs.
a harp is a musical instrument.
Sometimes socializing causes you to have fun.
Something you find at the gym is a treadmill.
Dogs can guide blind people.
lightning is dangerous.
Something you find in the forest is monkeys.
You can use a bath to clean yourself.
Something you might do while creating art is paint.
One of the things you do when you attend a rock concert is have a good time.
You can use a radiator to heat a room.
Most birds live in trees.
You are likely to find shades in a window.
A horse can be ridden.
an axe is sharp.
The effect of maintaining good health is long life.
cleaning clothing requires water.
Sometimes attending a meeting causes boredom.
Maryland is a state.
You can use a computer to entertain yourself.
the ear is an organ used by animals to detect sound.
Something you need to do before you light a fire is strike a match.
Something you find at the supermarket is groceries.
singing is a kind of music.
Something you find in a building is an elevator.
The effect of buying a beer is getting drunk.
Smoking is bad for you.
Something that might happen while chatting with friends is laughing.
a glove is used for protecting the hand.
a boy is a man.
One of the things you do when you have a conversation is listen.
A ray of light is a beam of light.
Something you need to do before you clean is get cleaning supplies.
DNA is a complex molecule that carries genetic information.
You are likely to find a snake in a garden.
a fisher is a creature that does fishing.
a typewriter keyboard is for typing.
A highway is an Australian freeway.
a person wants nice cars.
A Motion is a subject proposed as a basis for discussion.
ice cream is a popular desert.
a business is used for making money.
A tire is a wheel that helps propel a vehicle. 
If you want to learn about a subject then you should study it.
being cold would make you want to start a fire.
Chefs can prepare meals.
A human is a person.
Something you find at a carnival is a ride.
Something you find in the air is nitrogen.
If you want to see a band then you should go to their concert.
If you want to drive a car then you should find the keys.
a person wants to have a car.
vintners can bottle wine.
a person doesn't want to be shameful.
airplanes fly in the sky.
a yolk is part of an egg.
A girl can dress her doll.
a piece of paper is for writing.
Something you might do while seeing a movie is eat popcorn.
A terrorist can arm a bomb.
Something that might happen while maintaining good health is exercise.
Gravity is a natural force that affects people's lives-.
Something you find on the surface of the moon is rocks.
You are likely to find a toothpaste in a bathroom.
The effect of waking up in the morning is getting out of bed.
Something you need to do before you discover the truth is investigate.
You are likely to find a human in the space shuttle.
You can use a museum ticket to enter a museum.
The president can govern the country.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going jogging is sweating.
Something you find at a bar is a bar stool.
If you want to play the piano then you should Take lessons.
Something that might happen while flying in an airplane is it crashes.
If you want to sleigh ride then you should get in a sleigh.
You are likely to find a courtroom in a courthouse.
You would cry because you were sad.
If you want to get paid then you should Get a job.
Something that might happen while passing a class is celebration.
To understand the event "Jill went camping in the mountains.", it is important to know that camping is an activity.
Something you find at a school is a pupil.
people eat apples.
Some people do not keep a pet.
a man can date a woman.
a lady is a woman.
tartar control toothpaste is used for brushing teeth.
Somewhere a clock can be is on a desk.
A monitor is part of a computer.
a dresser is used for storing clothing.
a person doesn't want a broken leg .
You are likely to find a cavity in tooth.
You would have a shower because you want to clean yourself.
A pistol is a gun.
Something you find in a field is potato.
You are likely to find a work of art in the museum.
If you want to stop your car then you should put on your brakes.
You can use a pawn to play chess.
Something that might happen as a consequence of talking to someone is boredom.
If you want to go for a walk then you should put on some shoes.
You can use a shoulder bag to carry things.
You are likely to find a teakettle in the kitchen.
If you want to play the violin then you should take lessons.
You would attend class because you want to learn something.
Something that might happen while growing vegetables is you fertilize.
a shower is for cleaning your body.
Something you need to do before you eat breakfast in bed is make the breakfast.
You are likely to find a dog in a yard.
Doctors help people.
If you want to earn a living then you should work.
A rabbit is a mammal.
The effect of stopping standing in it is jumping out.
Nebraska is a state.
The effect of hearing the news is panic.
You are likely to find a human in a bus.
The effect of buying a beer is drinking.
Something you find in a boat is life jackets. 
One of the things you do when you wait for someone is read a magazine.
Somewhere a story can be is in a book.
Something you find on the Internet is information.
If you want to play tennis then you should go to a tennis court.
Something you might do while exercising is lift weights.
sitting quietly is for meditation.
Something you need to do before you go to a party is get an invitation.
Something you find on a desk is pens and pencils.
a brewer can bottle beer.
Most parents love their children.
Chefs can cook food.
kittens are curious.
A hostess can welcome guests.
a heart is for pumping blood.
You would eat dinner because you are hungry.
Something you find at Bob Jones University is a student.
A fingernail is part of your finger.
You can use an office to work.
examining a thing is for learning about a thing.
Sprite is a soda.
a clothing store sells clothes.
Something you might do while driving your car is turn the steering wheel.
You are likely to find furniture in a house.
A graph is a diagram that shows the relationships between things.
Something you find at an airport is a ticket counter.
a flask is used to store liquids.
a string bass is used for making music.
Something you might do while leaving the line is lose your place in line.
Something you find in the Arctic is penguins.
writing is used to communicate.
DeLorme is a company that makes maps.
You are likely to find a wedding chapel in las Vegas. 
a suitcase is for carrying clothes.
answering questions requires knowledge.
Augustine is a saint. He did not live in the same time as we.
Something that might happen when you buy presents is you spend money.
Something you find at a bookstore is book markers.
A swan is a bird.
One instance of a vessel is a ship.
You can use a coin to pay with.
a person wants good things in life.
If you want to listen to music then you should play the CD.
a hurricane is a very windy storm.
running a marathon is for competition.
You are likely to find a sound control room in recording studio.
A bicycle pump.
Cappuccino is a drink made with coffee.
Wine contains alcohol.
A high rise is a building.
If you want to read the news then you should buy a newspaper.
Cross country skiing is a very popular sport in northern climates.
Sometimes learning causes knowledge.
The effect of taking a walk is relaxation.
Neil Armstrong was the first man to walk on the moon.
An ape is an animal.
You are likely to find an icebox in the kitchen.
the need for money would make you want to apply for a job.
Something you find on the desk is a calendar.
a bridge is a structure that supports things.
Something you need to do before you get in shape is exercise.
Something you need to do before you go to work is get dressed.
Something you find at a show is an entertainer.
Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.
Something you might do while weeding the garden is pull up weeds.
You are likely to find a crucifix in a church.
a person wants to eat.
Knowledge is applied information.
A suicidal person wants to die.
Something you find at the repair shop is a tool.
boots are often made of leather.
Sprite is a soft drink.
going to a concert requires a ticket.
You are likely to find a house in a town.
Children like to play too.
Sometimes playing lacrosse causes injuries.
going to a movie is for having fun.
You are likely to find a graphite pencil in a desk.
an eye is part of a head.
One of the things you do when you cool off is go swimming.
An iris is a flower.
A fluid is a substance that tends to assume the shape of its container.
cardboard is used for making boxes.
an island is a small body of land surrounded by water.
A person doesn't want poverty.
communism is a type of government that does not allow free enterprise.
If you want to go to another place in the same city cheaply then you should take the bus.
waiting on line requires patience.
Plants often have green leaves.
a human is a synonym for a person.
Something you find on the lawn is sprinklers.
Math is a subject in school.
Sometimes enjoying the company of your friends causes happiness.
Iron is an element.
a database is an example of computer software.
Something you find on a boat is a captain.
Dog is not a cat.
Something you might do while staying in bed is reading a book.
Auckland is a city in New Zealand.
One of the things you do when you pass a course is take an exam.
rubber is a malleable substance.
Cats kill birds.
Earning money is a good thing.
Atlanta is a city.
Something that might happen while cashing in is receiving money.
a person doesn't want to be in a car accident.
You are likely to find a sloth in the tropical forest.
babies cry.
You are likely to find a small dog in an apartment.
If you want to discover the truth then you should ask questions.
You are likely to find a chess queen in a chess set.
If you want to take a phone call then you should pick up the phone.
Something you find under a desk is dust.
a person wants acknowledgment.
Something that might happen when you swim is get wet.
Horses are herbivores. They eat grass and hay.
Somewhere fish can be is in the lake.
Calcium is an element required to make strong bones.
Somewhere a classroom can be is in a university.
Something you find under the ground is oil.
sprinklers can water lawns.
One of the things you do when you go to get a haircut is read a magazine.
a person doesn't want his friends to die.
Something that might happen while calculating things quickly is making a mistake.
Something that might happen while seeing your favorite show is laughing.
Something you need to do before you eat a cookie is bake cookies.
A mountain is very high.
Deaf people can't hear.
A judge can free a prisoner.
Something that might happen while creating an idea is you write it down.
playing sport is for Winning.
You are likely to find a small dog in someones lap.
Something you find in a cupboard is food.
The effect of making a better world is happier people.
a cat has sharp claws.
Milk contains calcium.
Something you might do while playing Frisbee is run.
Something you need to do before you pay by check is write a check.
If you want to set a cup on the table then you should have a table.
Something you need to do before you go to another place in the same city cheaply is walk.
A rifle is for shooting.
Salt melts ice.
a key is for opening things.
People hear through their ears.
You can use a key chain to hold your keys.
You are likely to find a monkey in South America.
A need for information would make you want to go on the Internet. 
Saws cut wood.
preparing for a vote requires registering.
You are likely to find god in church.
You are likely to find a revolving door in a hotel.
a beanie is a hat.
a puck is for playing hockey.
A bagel is a food that has spread beyond its ethnic roots.
If you want to breathe then you should inhale.
You are likely to find a freezer in a kitchen.
A duck has webbed feet.
ushers can seat guests.
Something you find at a military base is a tank.
A note is a symbol that represents a musical tone.
You would eat lunch because of hunger.
going for a swim is for exercising.
One of the things you do when you pretend is use your imagination.
Anatomy is a science that studies the body.
A baseball is round.
You are likely to find a lizard in a forest.
Something that might happen as a consequence of getting a good grade is you're happy.
Fact is an indisputable piece of information.
You can use a wine cellar to store wine.
going to a baseball game requires a ticket.
Sometimes debating politics causes anger.
A leather is a cured animal skin.
Something you find in the refrigerator is beer.
If you want to propose to a woman then you should get down on your knee.
Something you find on a beach is towels.
A daffodil is a species of Narcissus.
Something that might happen as a consequence of setting a cup on the table is a stain.
Something you need to do before you read the newspaper is open it.
The effect of going on the stage is stage fright.
L is a letter that is on a typewriter key.
A lens is part of an eye.
If you want to play soccer then you should join a team.
One of the things you do when you pass a course is study.
Something you find in a meadow is a wildflower.
Something that might happen when you kill is you feel remorse.
The effect of seeing your favorite show is pleasure.
You are likely to find a restaurant table in a restaurant.
Something that might happen when you talk is you open your mouth.
waiters can serve food.
You are likely to find meat in a butcher shop.
Something you find at a race track is a horse race.
Communism is an abstract concept.
Something you find on the moon is a crater.
The effect of urinating is relief.
If you want to drive then you should have a car.
smoking is a bad habit.
Trains can arrive late.
There are clarinets in bands.
You can use a sofa bed to sleep on.
liter is a metric measurement.
a tape dispenser is for dispensing tape.
Something that might happen while having a shower is the phone rings.
Something you find at a concert is people.
One of the things you do when you cook a curry is add spices.
Dogs are domesticated animals.
Walking can be good exercise.
You are likely to find a table in a kitchen.
a person doesn't want the truth.
You are likely to find a human in restaurant.
Something you find at a church is a human.
poison ivy is a dangerous plant.
playing a guitar is for fun.
PHP is programming language.
You are likely to find an apple tree in fields.
A tool is an item used to aid the performance of a specific task.
If you want to stop your car then you should use the brakes.
A girl is a female.
working requires a job.
Something you find at a hotel is a room.
Something you find in a forest is birds.
A piece is part of whole.
A screwdriver is a drink made with orange juice and vodka.
bones can be broken.
a person doesn't want to be embarrassed.
You are likely to find dandruff shampoo in the shower.
a shoe is used for foot protection.
Some flowers bloom in spring.
Something you find on the shelf is dust.
You are likely to find a rosebush in a botanic garden.
You are likely to find a crab in a seafood restaurant.
A human can ride a horse.
A tree can fall.
A violin makes beautiful music.
Something you find at the front door is a welcome mat.
having a conversation is for Communicating.
a lobby is used for waiting.
a lily is a flower.
bagpipes are used for making music.
There are clarinets in orchestras.
a glass is for holding liquid.
One of the things you do when you go to school is attend classes.
A foot is a unit of measurement.
A steel cable is a cable made of steel.
Bob Dylan is a folk singer.
A flashlight is a portable light source.
You can use an apartment house to live in.
A good assertion is a statement that is incontrovertible. 
A stopwatch is used to time things.
Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas.
meeting interesting people requires being social.
a stethoscope is an instrument used to hear the regularity of a beating heart.
You are likely to find a blow dryer in a bathroom.
Pine is a soft wood.
Paper can burn.
a hairdryer is used for drying hair.
You are likely to find a checkbook in my purse.
You are likely to find a rosebush in the backyard.
People can ride in a car.
You would play tennis because you need exercise.
Water can reflect light.
You are likely to find a patio door in your house.
maintaining good health requires exercise.
a person wants to fit in.
Something you find at a hockey game is hockey players.
an elementary school is a type of school.
You are likely to find a mineral in a rock.
a pitcher is a container.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing a game is enjoying it.
Plumbing is a system that provides water and waste disposal.
You are likely to find a hot tap in the bathroom.
Vinyl is an organic chemical.
Something you need to do before you ride a horse is put a saddle on a horse.
Java is a computer programming language.
a person doesn't want boring things.
Britney Spears is a singer.
You are likely to find a kitten in the basket.
A fortune is a prediction about the future.
You would have lunch because you are hungry.
a river is also a body of water.
Visa is a credit card. People can use credit cards to get into debt.
You are likely to find a toilet seat in a bathroom.
having compassion would make you want to forgive someone.
A virtue is a good thing to have.
a pillow case is for covering a pillow.
Berlin is a city in Germany.
You can use a stove to heat food.
Something you might do while maintaining muscle strength is exercise.
Islam is a religion.
A biography is a book written about another individual.
Something you find in the newspaper is headlines.
CA is an abbreviation for California.
An actor can star in a movie.
You are likely to find a staple remover in offices.
a person doesn't want to do the job over.
You are likely to find the Earth in the Solar System.
Glue holds things together.
Something you find at a mall is an escalator.
You can use a marker to write.
You are likely to find a snake in holes.
Something you might do while meeting people is smiling.
If you want to chew your food then you should have teeth.
a tennis game is for exercise.
Something you might do while playing sports is get tired.
Moses can part the Red Sea.
A shooting star is a meteor which is burning up in the earth's atmosphere.
If you want to give assistance then you should help some one.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying presents for others is happiness.
a bottle can be recycled.
A phone book is a directory that matches names to phone numbers.
Something that might happen while jumping rope is falling.
Something that might happen when you study is reading.
Something that might happen while having fun is laughing.
A dollar is a form of money.
You are likely to find a contralto in an opera.
You are likely to find a student in a college.
a clamp is a tool.
Ice cream is a good dessert item.
You are likely to find a small dog in a lap.
paying by credit card requires a credit card.
Something you might do while emptying your bladder is a feeling of relief.
People play soccer.
Something that might happen while becoming a scuba diver is getting wet.
a pillow is soft.
Something that might happen while playing a game with your friends is you have fun.
Geneva is a city in Switzerland.
One of the things you do when you see old things is remember.
Something you find at your house is a computer.
Something you find on a boat is a seat.
gasoline can power a car.
If you want to get wet then you should Jump in some water.
Something you need to do before you go to a party is get dressed.
a towel rack is for holding a towel.
Chess sets are used to play the game of chess.
a dog wants to be petted.
If you want to prove your physical endurance then you should run a marathon.
You would buy a hamburger because you want to eat it.
You are likely to find paper in your printer.
a boat is used for floating on water.
Keys are used for starting cars.
Factories can produce goods.
You are likely to find a gel toothpaste in bathroom.
You would compete because you are good at something.
a check is for paying a bill.
Something you find at the top of a mountain is snow.
Something you might do while cutting your hair is look in the mirror.
Something that might happen when you laugh at a joke is people laugh with you.
Snow is frozen water.
The effect of playing the piano is music.
Something you might do while expressing information is smile.
You are likely to find a hair in my head.
fighting war requires guns.
Something you find at the dentist is toothbrushes.
there are fish in a river.
If you want to see your favorite show then you should turn on TV.
Some plants are poisonous.
a bookstore is for buying a book.
You are likely to find a fox in the hen house.
Something that might happen when you look through a telescope is you see stars.
Rock is a type of music.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in dog shows.
a person wants good times.
You are likely to find a pill in a pharmacy.
Something you need to do before you read a letter is open the envelope.
a case of beer is used for getting very drunk.
a person doesn't want to be disappointed.
If you want to get up early then you should go to bed early.
Something you might do while diving is holding your breath.
a ball is used for throwing.
some people have dogs as pets.
You would hike because you want to exercise with your dog.
Something that might happen when you play Frisbee is throwing the Frisbee. 
Something you find at the movies is audience.
Humanity wants to live.
You are likely to find a snake in a field.
Something you find in a suitcase is a toothbrush.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying products is spending money.
One of the things you do when you cross the street is look both ways.
a person doesn't want to have stress.
Sometimes going to a party causes you to meet new people.
The effect of waging war is death and destruction.
red and yellow make orange.
the ocean is for the fish.
bagpipes is for playing music.
a court is used for playing tennis.
Sometimes attending class causes learning.
visiting other countries is for learning from other cultures.
a person wants intelligence.
bathing requires a bathtub.
Something that might happen as a consequence of paying by check is bouncing a check.
Something you need to do before you send a criminal to prison is convict him of a crime.
Some beaches are sandy.
Oxygen is an element.
ink is used for drawing.
a curtain is for covering a window.
The first thing you do when you see a movie is buy tickets.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in a National Park.
scales are a symbol for justice.
You are likely to find an envelope in the mailbox.
A hairbrush is used to brush hair.
You are likely to find a shower in a bathroom.
a handgun is a weapon.
a person doesn't want bad things.
a tooth is used to chew food.
Something you need to do before you listen is pay attention.
You are likely to find a bee in the field.
smoking can kill.
a dynamite is used for blowing things up.
horses are large mammals.
You can use a doorway to enter a room.
A cat can climb up a tree.
You would learn about the world because you are curious.
the sun is yellow.
a person doesn't want to have to hurt others.
Wine is an alcoholic beverage.
opening a business is for making money.
If you want to wait in line then you should have patience.
time is running out.
a boat is for sailing.
You are likely to find a pistol in a holster.
growing vegetables is for eating them.
Pipes are used to smoke.
life is beautiful.
Shovels are used to dig holes.
a key will only fit one lock.
You would sit on a chair because you want to rest..
a mother loves her child.
You are likely to find a teaspoon in the drawer.
Bicycles are a mode of transportation.
Something that might happen while waking up in the morning is yawning.
You can use glue to stick things together.
Celery is a vegetable.
driving a car is for travel.
Something you find on the roof is roof tiles.
A radio is a communication device.
Something you might do while dancing is fall.
A filly is a young female horse.
You are likely to find an apple tree in the yard.
One of the things you do when you talk to someone is ask questions.
A refrigerator is a machine that keeps food cold.
If you want to listen to the radio then you should turn it on.
Something you find at a conference is a speaker.
Linux is an open-source operating system.
A student can question their teacher.
You are likely to find a restaurant diner in a city.
A Frisbee is a toy.
Reading is an activity performed on writings.
Something you might do while discovering the truth is asking questions.
ping pong is also called table tennis.
Something that might happen when you skateboard is falling off.
Something you might do while stopping your bicycle is use your brakes.
People swim in water.
a drawer is used for storing socks.
You are likely to find a night table in a bedroom.
Breakfast is a meal that often involves fruit juice.
jumping out of a window is for escaping from a burning building.
a person wants communication.
The last thing you do when you run in a marathon is cross the finish line.
Something that might happen while making a phone call is you get a wrong number.
If you want to reproduce then you should Find a mate.
You are likely to find a stained-glass window in a church.
Something you find at a library is newspapers.
You would have a checkup because you're in pain.
taking a walk requires putting on your shoes.
a double bass is used for playing music.
You are likely to find a piece of information in books.
Something you might do while viewing a film at home is make popcorn.
a sheet is for covering a bed.
You are likely to find a beaver in a forest.
The effect of standing in line is getting to the front.
Something that might happen when you reach an advantage is winning.
Something that might happen while buying a shirt is paying for it.
You are likely to find a woodwind family in a orchestra.
a driveway is for parking.
The effect of shopping is spending your money.
If you want to read a magazine then you should buy a magazine.
people can drink water.
a paper page is for writing.
You are likely to find a cat in the window.
Something you find at a library is a volume.
Something you might do while having a bath is wash.
You are likely to find a hairpin in a woman's hair.
cruise ships are for vacations.
Something that might happen as a consequence of cashing in is you get money.
some animals have tails.
You can use a letter opener to open a letter.
Sometimes proposing to a woman causes a marriage.
Something you find in the newspaper is obituaries.
You are likely to find a theater in the city.
You can use an air conditioner to cool a room.
People eat meat.
Something you find on your desk is a memo pad.
Arkansas is a state.
You are likely to find a brook in the forest.
If you want to go to school then you should enroll.
Something you might do while enjoying the day is smile.
cars are driven.
Something you find at a friend's wedding is wedding cake.
guns fire bullets.
Something you find at a train station is the schedule.
an accident can slow traffic.
Something you find at a wedding is bride and groom.
a parking structure is used for parking a car.
Something you might do while going for a run is put running shoes on.
You are likely to find a kitchen table in the kitchen.
You can use a planet to live on.
You are likely to find a grocer shop in town.
Something that might happen as a consequence of getting wet is get cold.
Something you find on the street is cigarette butts.
Leather comes from the hides of animals.
a word can mean things.
You are likely to find a horse in a pasture.
boys can kiss girls.
You are likely to find a carpet in a bedroom.
a violin plays music.
Something you find under a tree is roots.
a triangle is used for making music.
You are likely to find a ficus in your home.
Somewhere a star can be is in a galaxy.
Gravity pulls you down.
Something that might happen while buying a beer is you pay for it.
going for a haircut requires finding a barber.
The Empire State Building is in New York City.
A broom is for sweeping.
skin is for covering a body.
Something you find in a laboratory is computers.
dogs would make you want to take a walk.
Some birds do not migrate in the Winter.
You are likely to find grass in a meadow.
Something you need to do before you surprise someone is hide.
Something that might happen while waiting on line is you get impatient.
Hard hats protect your head from injury.
working requires energy.
Paris is in France. 
a train seat is for sitting on.
gasoline is flammable.
Sometimes going fishing causes you to have fun.
People use names to identify each other.
A judge can fine a defendant. 
Something you find in a plane is a cockpit.
a person doesn't want to lose things.
a voice is used to communicate.
You are likely to find a kitten in a pound.
Something you find at a restaurant is a table.
You are likely to find a human in a hospital.
Something you find at a state park is trees.
students can doubt their teachers.
a cottage is an old house in the country.
Something that might happen when you have an epileptic fit is you shake.
Sweden is a country.
Something you find at a restaurant is waiters.
A frying pan is a kitchen utensil.
Retrievers are a breed of dog.
the world is a sphere.
The effect of crossing the street is getting to the other side.
eating is a social event.
setting a cup on the table is for having a hand free.
People wear hats on their heads.
Somewhere a fan can be is at a concert.
Sailing is an expensive hobby.
Something you find at a university is a library.
Sometimes listening to music causes relaxation.
the earth has a molten core.
a glass is a container is made from a melted mixture of silicon and other chemicals.
If you want to check vital signs then you should check their pulse.
a person wants to solve a problem.
You are likely to find an isle in the sea.
A hospital is a place that sick or injured people go to for healing. 
Doctors and nurses work in hospitals.
You are likely to find a toothbrush handle in a bathroom.
You are likely to find a hotel in las Vegas. 
Something you find at a mall is a shopper.
Champagne is an alcoholic beverage.
having a bath is for washing yourself.
You are likely to find a ficus in a forest.
exercising is healthy.
You are likely to find a pastor in a church.
pain hurts.
a person doesn't want to lose their keys.
a hotel is for sleeping.
A collection of sports trophies.
deciduous trees lose their leaves in the Fall.
You are likely to find dental floss in the bathroom.
You are likely to find a marmoset in the forest.
rats are mammals.
baseball is an American sport.
Something that might happen when you go to a sporting event is cheering.
the universe is very large.
students learn in schools.
Some people are stupid.
If you want to have a physical exam then you should make an appointment.
Sometimes dying causes pain.
If you want to enjoy a film then you should go to the cinema.
The statement "If you win a tournament, you might win a trophy." is true because a trophy is an award.
a person wants to have good health.
a hatchet is a tool.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in the united states.
planes can crash.
Something you find in a laboratory is a test tube.
Rage against the machine is a rock band.
hair is used for warmth.
organization is a good thing.
music is used for pleasure.
a stethoscope is a tool used by doctors.
Something that might happen as a consequence of seeing a movie is you are entertained.
crime is an activity that breaks the law.
You are likely to find produce in a grocery store.
Something that might happen when you play the violin is you read music.
herbs are plants that may be used as flavoring in sauce.
A diamond is a girl's best friend.
darts are a game of skill.
A radio is a device used to tune into broadcasted radio waves.
Something that might happen as a consequence of chatting with friends is laughter.
cats can bite.
an island is a small land mass surrounded on all sides by water.
A family is a group of related people who live together.
Something you need to do before you get onto the web is get a computer.
Something that might happen while cooling off is you become less angry.
Lightning is an electrical discharge.
A student can read a book.
Something you find in a pocket is your car keys.
Keys are made of metal.
A person can thank another person.
matches can light fires.
You would feed your family because you love them.
People are human.
Something you find under your bed is a monster.
a screw is used for holding together.
You are likely to find a saddle in a barn.
Something you find in the fridge is eggs.
a person wants other people.
Oaks are a type of tree.
Something you find in a cabinet is cups.
You are likely to find a pawn in a game of chess.
If you want to shop then you should go to the store.
cogitating is for thinking things over.
a thermometer can measure the temperature.
a person wants long life.
hunger would make you want to eat.
Something you find at a race track is gamblers.
playing games is for entertainment.
an airplane is used for traveling.
You can use a brownstone to live in.
Something that might happen when you play poker is losing money.
Something that might happen while writing a term paper is research.
A donkey is an animal.
Something you find in a pantry is canned goods.
Pepsi is a soft drink.
Somewhere a bird can be is on a tree.
You are likely to find a knob in a door.
A tag is a label put on something.
You are likely to find a museum in cities.
You are likely to find an ocean on earth.
a corkscrew is for opening a wine bottle.
Anorexia is an eating disorder.
You are likely to find a muscle in a body.
an umbrella is used for keeping the rain off you.
Something you find in a building is the roof.
The television studio is part of the office building.
Something that might happen while making friends is TALKING.
One of the things you do when you start a family is get married.
animals are living things.
cleanliness is a good thing.
Sometimes seeing an exciting story causes excitement. 
You are likely to find a bee in a bee hive.
You are likely to find a cow in a slaughterhouse.
Jelly is a spread made from fruit juice.
A drill is a tool used to make holes in various materials.
Something you find at the doctor is a stethoscope.
Something you find at a desk is a mouse.
rain falls from clouds.
You are likely to find an arcade in a mall.
You are likely to find a laser in CD players.
a sky is used for flying in.
a town is a community.
Something you find in a laboratory is a Bunsen burner.
people eat in restaurants.
You can use a radio to listen to news.
religion is a very complex topic.
boredom would make you want to play games.
Something that might happen when you have food is eating it.
If you want to wait tables then you should become a waiter.
Wheat is used to make flour.
Something you find in a laboratory is beakers.
Elephants are mammals.
One of the things you do when you start a fire is light a match.
You can use a shower stall to take a shower.
a woman is a female human.
Blankets can cover a bed.
Something that might happen as a consequence of striking a match is a flame.
You are likely to find a horse on a ranch.
Learning can be fun.
You are likely to find a train seat in a train.
finding information is for research.
an ant can build an anthill.
Something that might happen while going for a swim is getting water in the nose.
You are likely to find an electric socket in a wall.
A shoe protects the feet. .
You are likely to find a bald eagle in America.
Something you find in the oven is oven racks.
If you want to join the army then you should enlist.
Something you might do while entertaining people is laugh.
a net is used for catching butterflies.
An activity a student can do is study.
You are likely to find a list of appointments in a appointment book.
a carnation is a flower.
Something you find in a restaurant is forks.
If you want to eat ice cream then you should buy ice cream.
Cats have eyes.
Something that might happen while eating a cookie is drinking some milk.
You are likely to find a potato in the potato field.
Something you might do while cleaning is kill a spider.
the united states is a country.
Something that might happen when you surf the web is you see flowers.
Something you find in church is religion.
Something that might happen when you read a letter is you cry.
If you want to see a movie then you should go to cinema.
Something that might happen when you clean your room is you find money.
people can ride bikes.
Something you find in a dumpster is trash.
You can use a picnic basket to carry food.
Something you find in the garage is oil.
You are likely to find a notebook in a backpack.
Something you might do while enjoying the company of your friends is drinking.
You can use a heated towel rack to have warm towels.
If you want to go for a swim then you should put on your swimsuit.
Ireland is a country.
You are likely to find a ferret in your home.
If you want to have fun then you should play games.
looking through a telescope requires a telescope.
a toothbrush handle is for holding the toothbrush.
animals talk to each other.
Something that might happen while going off strike is returning to work.
You are likely to find a ficus in the desert.
a container is used for storing things.
jeans are usually made of denim.
Detectives can tail suspects.
Something you find at a rest area is a restroom.
You are likely to find a human in an airport.
Houses are made of wood.
Something you might do while staying fit is exercise.
You would buy products because you need them.
a soldier is used for fighting wars.
a violin is used for playing music.
a proton is part of atom.
detectives can piece together clues.
You are likely to find an electric blanket in a bedroom.
pumpkins are orange.
You are likely to find a potato in your soup.
Something you need to do before you go to an opera is dress up.
sewing requires a needle and thread.
A person can laugh at a joke.
You are likely to find a grape in your kitchen.
You are likely to find a blowfish in the water.
One of the things you do when you hear music is tap your foot.
Sometimes enjoying the day causes relaxation.
Monarchy is a form of government.
Wicca is a religion.
having a dirty house would make you want to do housework.
Something you find at a concert is bands.
flying a kite is for fun.
an ocean is a body of water.
You are likely to find a bookcase in a library.
Something you need to do before you go to school is enroll in classes.
a plate is used to hold food.
a kayak is a type of boat.
Something you might do while meeting a friend is shake hands.
Something that might happen while watching a movie is the lights are turned off.
a rented apartment is for living in.
You are likely to find a xylophone in a music store.
a baseball is for throwing.
You are likely to find a stick of butter in the fridge.
A cartoon is a picture which is hand-drawn.
Ethiopia is a country.
a person doesn't want bad dreams.
Soccer is a team sport.
You are likely to find gas in the car.
You are likely to find a stuffed animal in a toy store.
You can use shallow water to wade.
You can use a folding chair to sit.
A plunger is made of wood and rubber.
If you want to use a computer then you should turn on a computer.
All living things eventually die.
Something you find in a linen closet is a sheet.
a rook is used for playing chess.
Brown is a color.
Something you find in a dictionary is word definitions.
hot air rises.
the heart is a muscle.
literature is used for reading.
a man and a woman kissing.
You are likely to find a sideboard in the dining room.
Something you find at a home is clothing.
Electricity can power a computer.
resting is for relaxing.
Lightning is electricity.
You are likely to find an anemone in a garden.
Something you find in the street is trucks.
You are likely to find a dollar in a wallet.
swords are weapons.
cats eat fish.
A rake is a garden tool that helps gather grass and leaves.
Somewhere a painting can be is in a museum.
You are likely to find a grape in the store.
Something that might happen as a consequence of living a life is death.
A bomb is a device designed to explode.
Something you find at a carnival is a clown.
A girl is a prepubescent female human.
washing clothes requires water.
a sock is an article of clothing worn on the foot.
selling your new book is for making money.
science is a subject taught in school.
a carpet is for walking on it.
A meteor is a meteoroid that has entered the earth's atmosphere.
sailors can row a boat.
Wool is a material that produces warmth.
Sport is fun.
Something you find in a bathroom is a toothbrush.
a steak house is used for eating out.
One type of dog is a German Shepherd.
Geometry is a subject studied in school.
A boulevard is a street which cars drive along.
a boy is an early stage of development of a man.
bob Dylan is a guitar player.
Something you might do while knitting is follow your patterns.
a rook is a chess game piece that looks like a castle.
a village is for Living.
Wednesday is a weekday.
a person doesn't want death.
Mountain Dew is a soft drink.
You are likely to find an alley in a city.
meditation is an important aspect of far eastern religions.
Something you might do while awaking is rub your eyes.
cars are mostly made of metal.
Beavers build dams.
You can use a brass instrument to make music.
If you want to examine a thing then you should pick it up.
playing requires doing something fun.
A notepad is a portable device for writing on.
Uranus is a planet in our solar system.
Mars is a planet.
A pebble is a rock.
a screw is a simple machine.
You are likely to find a sofa bed in a living room. 
wind is air moving.
democracy is a good thing.
sightseeing is a popular vacation activity.
turtles move slowly.
One of the things you do when you buy fresh fruits and vegetables is pay for them.
a dentist is for cleaning your teeth.
The effect of going off strike is work.
Something that might happen while hanging out at the bar is drinking beer.
Ice is frozen water.
You are likely to find a hairdryer in the bathroom.
Somewhere a bug can be is in a garden.
Something you find at a restaurant is food.
You would walk because you want some exercise.
a parkway is used for driving.
a canoe is a kind of boat.
some turtles can live to be very old.
You are likely to find a cat in a chair.
An activity lovers can do is kiss.
You are likely to find a soprano in choir.
skiing can be a dangerous sport.
You are likely to find a horse in a cavalry.
farmers can grow crops.
Something you might do while laughing at a joke is smiling.
Something you find in the cupboard is cans of food.
If you want to see art then you should go to an art museum.
You are likely to find comb in a pocket.
Sometimes playing hockey causes fights.
mercury is the closest planet to the sun.
Something you need to do before you buy something for a loved one is go to a store.
You are likely to find a dining table in the dining room.
a ladder is for reaching high places.
Groucho Marx was a famous comedian.
a mandolin is for making music.
You are likely to find quartz in rock.
You would write a letter because you want to communicate with someone.
Something that might happen when you go to a movie is watching the movie.
Something you need to do before you score a home run is be playing baseball.
DNA is a molecule.
If you want to program then you should learn programming.
a cat wants milk to drink.
a person wants affection.
Cabbage is a plant that one can eat.
Something you find in the refrigerator is butter.
Water is reflective.
You would tickle because you want to make someone laugh.
some trees lose their leaves in winter.
having a party requires some friends.
People can dance to music.
eating a cookie requires biting it.
soda is carbonated.
The dog is a type of animal.
piggy banks are used to save money.
a glass of water half full.
The last thing you do when you take a bath is dry yourself off.
a general would make you want to advance into battle.
You can use a Chinese restaurant to eat Chinese food.
House is a place and a thing.
Something you find in the sock drawer is a pair of socks.
People are alive.
physics is a science.
You are likely to find a pencil in a pencil-case.
Something that might happen while proving your physical endurance is sweating.
A fedora is a hat.
Safety pins are sharp.
a bird wants to fly.
Something that might happen while growing vegetables is weeding the garden.
a doctor is a person.
a person doesn't want isolation.
If you want to pass a course then you should take notes.
You would fish because you want to have fun.
You are likely to find an armchair in a living room.
Sugar is a kind of food.
An alley is a narrow road.
lies are usually bad.
Sometimes walking the dog causes pride.
A earthworm is a little animal with a long, soft body and no legs.
Something that might happen while cleaning clothing is you lose a sock.
A bird can be a pet.
Something you might do while getting a good grade is brag.
A bucket is a container with a handle.
Something that might happen while washing clothes is stains are removed.
a person wants to have many friends.
Something you find in a cupboard is coffee cups.
A toadstool is a poisonous mushroom.
Something you find at a desk is a calculator.
Musical notation is a visual representation of an acoustic event.
You would play the violin because you want to hear music.
CNN is a TV station reporting about war.
clamps hold things in place.
a garnet is a type of stone.
Cyc is a commonsense knowledge base.
gloves come in pairs.
A printer is a device that prints things.
a post office is for mailing letters.
Death is a very hard symptom to recover from.
Something you find in a classroom is a chalkboard.
Still life is a type of fine art.
School bus is typically yellow.
A sphere is a ball-shaped object.
Most lions live in Africa.
A lime is a sour, green citrus fruit.
people play games for fun.
a unicycle is a vehicle with just one wheel.
a hand can cup water.
A trapezoid is a four-sided figure with two parallel sides.
a person wants to be liked.
Spontaneous unselfconscious laughter is a sign of health and well being.
rubber ducks are bath toys.
Nashua is a city in New Hampshire.
playing soccer requires a soccer ball.
Something you find in the Arctic is snow.
DVD is a medium for storing information.
If you want to wait on tables then you should be a waiter.
A swimming pool is an artificial pond used for recreation.
clamps hold things together.
A cradle is a small bed for a baby.
Giraffes have long necks.
white wine is a kind of wine.
love would make you want to live a life.
A wave is an undulating surface movement.
If you want to find information then you should do research.
Four-square is a game played with a ball.
You are likely to find a boulevard in a city.
A party is a festive gathering.
A dot is a tiny speck.
A hospital is a large medical facility.
Graves are in a graveyard.
A movie is a visual and dramatic way of telling a story.
You are likely to find a barbecue in the backyard.
An umbrella is a device to protect something placed beneath it.
A wheelbarrow is a small cart with one wheel and two handles.
a thinking dog is a good dog.
a dart is a object.
a bank is a safe place to keep your money.
Coral is a tiny ocean animal that lives in colonies.
firefighting is a dangerous job.
A besom is a straw broom used by Witches.
groundhogs day is a holiday.
a government is an organization that rules over a country.
constructing a very tall building is a difficult task.
A dart board is a target for darts.
A sea is a huge mass of water.
a good play is a pleasure to watch.
dragging a quilt is a means to move the quilt.
plastic is a durable invention.
A counter is a surface for working.
Numlock is a key on the computer keyboard.
Falling in love is a wonderful feeling.
overpopulation is a serious problem.
Norman is a man's name.
brain strain is an effect equal to being tired.
a dog is a nice friend.
One of the things you do when you eat a hamburger is absorb a lot of animal fat.
a hard drive is another name for a fixed disk drive.
A stairwell is a staircase in a hallway.
An artist is a creative person.
A wall is an artificial barrier.
Moselle is a German white wine.
A raisin is a dehydrated grape.
prolog is a declarative programming language.
fruit is an excellent source of dietary fiber. 
Mountain dew is a carbonated beverage.
A pair of trousers is a single, connected object.
peanut butter is an allergen. 
A marble is a small hard sphere.
Sleep is a biological mechanism that allows the human brain to rest and process information.
table tennis is a very fast action sport.
Swimming is a better activity than getting caught smoking.
IQ is an abbreviation for Intelligence Quotient.
a mall is a lot of shops under one roof.
marriage is a common ritual among humans.
Hair color is a genetically-controlled trait.
Cab is another word for taxi.
a bed is a good place to lie.
A ship is a large seagoing vessel.
a TV is a communication device.
decorative bookbinding is an art form.
A caileach bheur is a blue hag in Celtic lore.
attic is a kind of room found under the roof of a house.
A visa is a pass to enter a country under specific conditions.
Indoor plumbing is a great convenience.
skiing is a great way to enjoy the winter and snow.
a balloon is a child's toy.
a dollar is an American paper currency.
Disney Land is an Amusement Park.
This person is a bad artist.
Porcelain is an electrical non-conductor.
A baseball hat is a good way to keep the sun out of your eyes.
Balefire is a fire that is lit for magical purposes.
a ceiling is a horizontal plane.
a pond is a cavity in the earth that is filled with water.
Sailboat racing is an international sport.
Galileo is a famous astronomer.
Arkansas is a pretty place.
room decor is a matter of personal taste.
A superhighway is a large road.
A world is an entire realm of experience.
A pentagram is a five-pointed star.
A bolline is a white-handled knife with a sharp blade used by witches. 
canoeing is a great exercise for the arms.
a sofa is a place to sit.
Star Trek is a television and movie series about space travel.
air is a gas.
a kayak is a great way to see the sights around an island.
Playing poker is a form of gambling.
joy is an emotion.
music is a form of escape for some people.
jewelry is a popular adornment in many cultures.
a heart is a pump for blood.
fruit punch is a drink made of many kinds of fruit.
a coat hanger is an inanimate object.
a pizzeria on top of Mount Saint Helens is a bad idea.
playing cards is a popular pastime for many people.
world peace is a big issue with politicians. 
a rod is a long slender object.
Lightning is a natural electrical discharge.
A tire is a rubber wheel that is found on vehicles of all types.
sobbing is a more intense form of crying.
IBM is a computer manufacturer.
a Swiss army knife is a practical tool that fits in a pocket.
Shooting at targets is a good way to practice.
A watch is a smaller, portable version of a clock.
Personal marine safety is a major concern.
Cartoon Network is a TV network that only plays cartoons.
War is a common event.
shelter is a basic human need.
Music is a way to communicate deep emotions.
normal mud is always water soluble.
A mansion is a large, stately residence.
an expressway is a type of highway.
Space exploration is a new science.
Cajun is a type of food that people eat.
a bicycle is a kind of gyroscope used for transportation.
a decoy is a replica of a duck.
Doug Batcholor is a Seventh Day Adventist evangelist.
A shelter is a basic necessity for humans.
everyones life is a different adventure.
a fitting room is a place to try on clothes before purchasing them.
A thermic lance is a mild steel tube about three meters long.
Antarctica is a frozen desert.
communication is an event.
An activity a receptionist can do is answer phones.
an oath is an unbreakable promise.
A yo-yo is a simple toy that requires a great deal of practice and skill.
a lobby is an area in a building for greeting visitors.
flying is a complex action.
A term is a unit of time that a class is taught.
sushi is a traditional Japanese meal.
Backgammon is a game for two players.
A cup of hot chocolate to drink is a special treat on a cold winter day.
Abstract art is all art that does not evoke reality.
work is a force through a distance.
a ship is a large sea going vessel used to haul passengers and cargo.
one man's toy is another man's livelihood.
A staple is a tool used to bind pieces of paper together.
Gambling is a good way for bored humans to lose money.
Making jewelry of string and beads is a craft that uses the hands.
Lego is a good toy for children.
trash is an object that a person no longer wants.
Love is an abstract concept.
space travel is a goal many people want to achieve.
shaking hands is a form of greeting among humans.
a cheesecake is a type of dessert cake which contains cream cheese.
Going on a cruise is a popular vacation.
One of the things you do when you take a picture is aim the camera.
Anarchism is a visceral revolt.
sailboat racing is a popular sport in Australia.
a clown fish's best friend is an anemone. 
Book pages are made of paper.
health is an important foundation for success in life.
A phone is a tool used to call people.
eating at the captain's table is an honor.
A popular head covering for young people is a do-rag.
a page is a small section of a book.
an Australian walk-about is a great form of exercise.
a tornado is a dark, swift, unpredictable funnel of wind and dust.
A refrigerator is an electronic appliance.
Bakelite is a hard thermosetting plastic.
puma is a large wild cat.
Miscanthus is a type of ornamental grass.
a gate is a door in a fence.
a car park is a place to park cars.
summer is a good time to swim.
a comb is a tool to remove tangles from hair.
A truffle is a fungus that pigs sniff out.
Night watchman is a boring profession.
a funeral is a time to tell dead people goodbye.
ping pong is another term for table tennis.
Biology is a subject for studying.
mathematics is a human invention created to understand the forces of the universe.
a parking structure is a building that holds cars.
a toothpick is a tool used by people to clean their teeth.
A gizmo is a musical instrument.
wristwatch is a way to tell time.
Art is a hobby that uses creative energy.
Ink is a fluid that comes in many colors.
miata is a line of cars manufactured by Mazda. 
bonding is a critical event in child rearing.
Mello Yello is a soft drink.
a passport is a small book.
tragedy is a sad thing and people want happiness.
poison ivy is a dangerous plant.
Noam Chomsky is a political philosopher.
A car stereo system is a popular accessory in a new vehicle.
Body language is a form of expression without words.
A bathroom with a bathtub is a washing area.
watching television is a popular pastime.
Gas is a substance capable of expanding to fill a container.
Pittsburgh is a city in the state of Pennsylvania.
A proxy server is a server that acts as an intermediary between a workstation user and the Internet.
a crown is a headache to wear.
Lemon grass is a common flavoring in Thai food.
A seashell is an abandoned home for a sea creature.
Oringina is a soft drink.
A cloverleaf is a particular kind of interchange between two major roads.
A priest is a kind of church leader.
New Paltz is a city in the state of New York.
Little Gem Arborvitae is a plant.
One of the things you do when you play is act out fantasies.
champagne is a drink for adults; it is kept cool by putting it in a bucket of ice.
A table is a raised platform.
A hot air balloon is a device that flies by having lower average density than the surrounding air.
U2 is a great band.
a hair conditioner is for making your hair soft.
Pollution is a cause of depletion of the ozone.
You are likely to find a fork in a kitchen.
a diary is a way to record ones life.
a coin purse is for holding coins.
Riding a bike is a good way to exercise.
Dictionaries are books.
a banjo is a stringed musical instrument.
If you want to get wet then you should go in the water.
A disco is a club for dancing.
Your arm is part of your body.
one type of show is a tv show.
spiders spin webs.
A castle is a large building.
Some people are nice.
a safety is a switch on a gun to prevent accidental discharge.
You would play tennis because you like the game.
bob Dylan is a cultural icon of the 60's decade.
waiting on tables is for taking orders for food.
A computer chip is an integrated circuit.
a stick of butter is used for cooking.
A vocation is a strong sense to pursue life in one particular way.
You are likely to find a nerve in an animal.
A simulation is a dynamic, operating model of a system which incorporates both structure and processes.
a swimming pool is used for getting wet.
Chili is a pepper that is very hot.
walking is for exercise.
one tool that a doctor uses is a stethoscope.
people worship in a church.
apple is also a record label.
people often have cats as pets.
One of the things you do when you learn about a subject is ask questions.
You are likely to find a banker in a bank.
A valley is a low portion of land between hills.
striving is achievement.
ozone is a gas in the atmosphere.
You are likely to find an entrance in building.
A crew is a group of people working together.
Something you find at a demonstration is angry people.
Kermit is a popular protocol used in transferring data to mainframe computers.
music is enjoyable.
Mare Serpentis is a dark region on Mars.
a dish is for eating food.
a thermometer is a device used to measure temperature.
You can use a head to think.
Syrtis Major is a dark region on Mars.
Something that might happen while reading the newspaper is you learn.
badminton is a fun game.
a house costs a lot of money.
You can use a grocery store to buy food.
Something you find at the market is stalls.
an airplane can arrive at an airport.
You can use a rifle to kill things.
Syrtis Minor is a dark region on Mars.
You are likely to find a kosher restaurant in New York City.
going up stairs is a good way to exercise.
The effect of opening a business is making money.
Organizing is another way to put order to ideas.
paying by check requires a checkbook.
Needlepoint is a kind of sewing.
You are likely to find a cemetery in cities.
A modern resume is a promotional document.
You are likely to find an eye in faces.
a temple is a place for religious people to worship.
If you want to program a computer then you should learn a computer language.
Muscle strength is also mental strength.
You are likely to find a tablecloth in a linen closet.
Poison ivy makes a person itch.
You are likely to find a rented flat in the city.
A non listening server is a port that doesn't have a service bound to it.
a cat cannot talk.
Arcadia is a bright region on Mars.
You are likely to find a glassed roof in a greenhouse.
A helicopter is a type of flying vehicle.
Something you find at a street corner is on street.
Fionacat is a proper name.
A race is a timed competition.
viewing a video is for entertaining.
A basement is an example of an underground storage facility.
a human can not breath in space.
Something you need to do before you make people laugh is be funny.
A minister is a kind of church leader.
E-mail is used for communication.
A phone is a device used to communicate sounds.
You can use a family room to play games.
A percolator is an appliance for making coffee.
Quail is a bird.
an isle is a piece of land surrounded completely by water.
You are likely to find snow in Canada.
a hardware store is a place to buy tools.
a choir is a group of people who sing.
You are likely to find a movie ticket in a movie theater.
Remembering is a dream that comes in waves.
Something you need to do before you mail a letter is write a letter.
Something you find in outer space is galaxies.
You can use a toy marble to play.
Playing a dulcimer is a fading art.
Killing is morally wrong.
a gymnasium is for exercise.
a wallet hold money.
An interview is a two way exchange of information.
Something you find in a backpack is a first aid kit.
a child wants to play.
The stem is part of a plant.
an alto is a musical range in a voice.
Something you find at a water fountain is water.
Something that might happen as a consequence of walking is exercise.
Something you find at a motel is the bible.
Aden Ridgeway is a member of the Gumbayyngirr people.
People sit on a sofa.
a hairdresser chair is for sitting.
Something you find at a swimming pool is lifeguards.
Sometimes competing causes anger.
You would play ball because its fun.
You are likely to find a library in a town.
Dogs can hear high pitched noises.
A newspaper is a source of information.
Something you find on the surface of the earth is dirt.
You can use gas to power a car.
You are likely to find a hospital in a city.
One of the things you do when you serve justice is act with the power of society.
You are likely to find a fungus in caves.
You are likely to find a discotheque in a city.
Something you need to do before you build a cathedral is hire an architect.
Sierra Mist is a lemon-lime soda.
Chicks are baby chickens.
a road is used for travelers.
If you want to sleep then you should turn off the lights.
A nut is a hard and dry type of fruit.
If you want to do some exercises then you should warm up..
You are likely to find a lemur in the rain forest.
You would bring home some fish because fish are good to eat.
James Vasile is a lawyer that lives in New York.
Something that might happen as a consequence of obstructing justice is being arrested.
You can use a radio studio to record music.
You are likely to find a kingdom in Europe. 
White is a cooler color for the roof of a house.
chopping firewood is for building a fire.
One of the things you do when you get a good grade is smile.
washing clothes requires laundry detergent.
A pew is a seat in a church.
a quill brush is for writing.
You are likely to find a rubber stamp in a post office.
You are likely to find the Pacific Ocean in the earth.
A microprocessor is an electronic component used in computers.
You are likely to find dynamite in a mine.
Somewhere ice can be is in Antarctica.
One of the things you do when you hear singing is sing along.
Drinks are liquids.
taking an exam requires preparation.
You are likely to find a ground floor in a building.
a sword is for fighting.
Alarm clocks are really annoying.
buying a house would make you want to sign a contract.
Penguins are animals that live in the colder regions of the world. Because of their black and white "fur," they are commonly referred to as wearing tuxedos. They waddle and it's funny. They live near water.
Something you might do while cooking dinner is boil salt water.
You are likely to find water in a stream.
travel would make you want to fly in an airplane.
Something you might do while playing a game with your friends is laugh.
Something that might happen when you hike is you get a blister on your foot.
You are likely to find a fast food restaurant counter in a fast food restaurant.
The effect of dreaming is fantasy.
A furnace can heat a home.
You are likely to find a utility case in a garage.
You would have a rest because you want to renew energy.
Something you might do while seeing a band is you have fun.
a car is a transportation device.
Exercising is a productive workday starter.
Something you might do while working is taking a break.
jumping out of a window is for escaping fire.
taking the car for a drive is for Fun.
a hockey puck is used for scoring goals.
You would light a fire because you want to be warm..
analyzing something is for understanding.
Something you might do while playing sports is sweating.
You can use an acrylic to paint a picture.
dying is for the end of life.
a comb is used for grooming.
You can use a swimming pool to cool off.
You can use a saddle to ride.
You can use a terraced house to live in.
If you want to wait on tables then you should work in a restaurant.
a person wants to drink fresh water.
becoming inebriated requires alcohol.
Somewhere a flower can be is in a vase.
You can use a tin to hold cookies.
Something you find at an opera is gentlemen.
A music score with a conductor's baton.
An activity phones can do is ring.
a musician can play a musical instrument.
Something you find in a jar is peanuts.
a person wants fairness.
One of the things you do when you go to the zoo is see animals.
an index card cabinet is used for storing index cards.
You are likely to find a paper page in a magazine.
Something you need to do before you paint a picture is have a brush.
a washing machine is for washing clothes.
bread is for Eating.
a building is for shelter.
Something you find in the jar is honey.
A human is a biped.
Something you find at the park is animal.
You would climb a mountain because you want to get to the top.
You are likely to find board games in a toy store.
You can use a hammer to hit a nail.
You are likely to find a puzzle in a newspaper.
Something you find at an airport is people.
people can forget things.
You can use an examination table to examine things.
You are likely to find text books in a school.
You are likely to find a fungus in salad.
You can use a hair roller to curl your hair.
a hospital is used for surgery.
You are likely to find a launch pad in Cape Canaveral.
You are likely to find a fruit in a grocery store.
going to get a haircut requires hair.
You would drink alcohol because you want to get drunk.
Something you need to do before you use a VCR is plug it in.
Something you find in church is people.
All planets are round.
a person doesn't want a flat tire.
a basket of laundry is used for holding dirty clothes.
Something you need to do before you sell your new book is write the book.
If you want to buy food then you should have money.
People can hear that Sound.
bathing is for removing dirt.
You are likely to find a marmoset in the tropical forest.
You are likely to find a lizard in California.
a soldier can fight a battle.
a bell is for making noise.
Miners can mine gold.
Hot chocolate is good on a cold day.
You would buy something for a loved one because you want to express your love.
If you want to wait your turn then you should have patience.
If you want to watch a film then you should go to a movie.
Something you find in a pocket is a dollar.
The sun can heat the earth.
Words can hurt feelings.
jewelry is often expensive.
Something you might do while riding a bicycle is pedal.
Something you need to do before you have a shower is turn on the water in the shower.
You are likely to find a waiting room for doctors.
You are likely to find a grocer in the city.
People can love.
a church is for worship.
Something you find at work is paperwork.
If you want to breathe some fresh air then you should go outside.
One of the things you do when you test your strength is lift weights.
You are likely to find a door with a lock in a house.
jumping rope requires a rope.
The best things in life are free.
You are likely to find a doctor office in a Hospital.
One of the things you do when you go to a restaurant is order food.
a sea is for sailing on.
People need to eat.
Something you find over the rainbow is a cloud.
playing a guitar requires practice.
books have spines.
You are likely to find a mouse in the walls of a house.
getting a job is for making money.
You are likely to find an apple tree in a country.
The first thing you do when you go to a baseball game is buy a ticket.
You would use a computer because you want to send an email.
You are likely to find a poem in a poetry book.
You are likely to find a steakhouse in the city.
You are likely to find a baseball field in the park.
exercising is for Losing weight.
Something you find at a meeting is a notepad.
old books are valuable.
Fashion changes.
You are likely to find a mug in a kitchen.
You are likely to find an armoire in a bedroom.
a person doesn't want a broken finger.
A nut and a bolt.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to school is education.
teachers can plan lessons.
Something you might do while playing basketball is fall down.
hangers are for hanging clothes.
a closet is for hanging clothes.
You are likely to find the Moon in orbit around Earth.
A shirt is used for wearing.
Sometimes playing ball causes injuries.
You can use jewelry to decorate your body.
a person wants fortune.
You would wash your hands because your hands are dirty.
Brooms are used to sweep floors.
a puzzle is for a mental challenge.
The first thing you do when you eat in a fast food restaurant is order the food.
The first thing you do when you examine a thing is look at a thing.
clouds are often in the sky.
Surfers ride waves.
You are likely to find a heifer in ranch.
A gardener can water his garden.
You would bungee jump from a high bridge because you want excitement.
Puffin is a bird.
A movie can be recorded on film.
Fire produces heat.
If you want to drive your car then you should get in the car.
bullets can miss targets.
The mouth is part of the face.
Chefs cook.
Something you might do while going to a baseball game is you catch a foul ball.
fishing is for catching fish.
Something you find at the dentist is dental drills.
If you want to sit quietly then you should meditate.
A priest can believe in god.
a river is used for fishing.
If you want to use a computer then you should turn it on.
Something you might do while competing is you try to win.
some people keep cats as pets.
going to a film requires some money.
a plant can flower in spring.
a train track is used for train travel.
a person doesn't want to have pimples.
You are likely to find a lizard in Florida.
Something you need to do before you receive a degree is go to college.
Basketball is usually played indoors.
paper is made of trees.
Sometimes watching a movie causes me to laugh.
You are likely to find a door with a lock in an office building.
You are likely to find a wound in a hospital.
You are likely to find a cafe in the city.
If you want to go on a vacation then you should save your money.
Something you need to do before you go for a swim is wear a bathing suit.
Something you find at a war is a bomb.
chemistry is a science.
reading the newspaper requires literacy.
flying a kite is for pleasure.
Eyes can see light.
sitting down is for rest.
a person doesn't want a broken heart.
You are likely to find a briefcase in an office.
You are likely to find a clipboard in the office.
keyboards are input devices.
Three Hot Air Balloons.
taking a bath is for relaxing.
Somewhere a roofer can be is on a roof.
floppy disks store information.
education can further your career.
a person doesn't want suffering.
There are cookies in the cookie jar.
The little girl can dress her doll.
a mirror reflects an image.
Something you might do while waiting for someone is read a book.
A penguin is black and white.
You can use a dining room table to eat at.
If you want to go to sleep then you should brush your teeth.
Something you might do while going to bed is turn of the light.
Hats can be brown.
An activity a cat can do is catch a bird.
a person doesn't want to harm others.
A house has rooms.
If you want to go on the Internet then you should have an Internet connection.
strong wind would make you want to fly a kite.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in Utah.
The effect of reading to your children is intelligence.
A dinner on a cruise ship.
A guitar has strings.
hard hat protects the head from falling objects.
Sometimes studying causes more intelligence.
You would add up a column of numbers because you want the total.
Something you find in a car is passengers.
People play sports.
Something that might happen while writing is you make a mistake.
a pizzeria is for eating pizza.
You are likely to find a beaver in a lake.
Something you find on the windowsill is potted plants.
You would eat vegetables because you want to taste them.
an album is used for storing photographs.
food is for sustenance.
If you want to get onto the web then you should have a browser.
Need would make you want to write a program.
Something you find at a carnival is a Ferris wheel.
Something that might happen as a consequence of swimming is drowning.
Something you find in a plane is seat belts. 
walking in the rain would make you want to get wet.
Something you find on a plate is food.
a French horn is used for making music.
Roller coasters are fun.
Star Trek is a favorite sci-fi TV show.
You are likely to find a box in the post office.
You would take a shower because you are dirty.
The effect of going to a Laundromat is cleanliness.
The effect of adding up a column of numbers is getting a sum.
Something you find at the post office is lines.
Many birds migrate during the winter.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going for a run is you trip.
Something you need to do before you eat in a fast food restaurant is order the food.
You are likely to find a bass clarinet in band.
One of the things you do when you play soccer is kick the soccer ball.
You are likely to find a stool in kitchen.
The last thing you do when you exercise is take a shower.
Something that might happen as a consequence of sewing is you get a fine quilt.
Dirt is another word for soil.
kettles are pots.
A zeppelin is a metal-framed, motorized balloon-like airship that floats in the sky.
smoking requires having cigarette.
Gingerbread is a spicy treat.
You can use a marble to play a game.
A pitcher is a container for pouring liquids.
You can use a city hall to have meetings.
An embryo is a very young, unborn organism.
A book has a cover.
Creating fun is an important function for human mental health.
breathing is for living.
Christmas is a commercialized holiday.
Criminals commit crimes.
A leprechaun is a mythical creature rumored to live in Ireland.
If you want to buy products then you should go to a store.
Science is a method to understand the world.
Something you might do while opening a business is have a party.
downhill skiing is a fast sport.
Cats are very agile.
Coca-Cola is a black liquid.
You are likely to find a concierge in a hotel.
A verdict is a decision that concludes a case.
tickling requires using your fingers.
a wife is a partner in life.
Something that might happen as a consequence of expressing yourself is embarrassment.
Loch Ness is a huge lake in Scotland.
a microwave can heat food.
A changing room is a place for changing clothes in private.
beans would make you want to grow vegetables.
Mardi Gras is a huge festival.
Something that might happen while drinking is choking.
Whiskey is a kind of distilled beverage.
Something that might happen when you enjoy the company of your friends is you tell jokes.
American Express is a financial enterprise.
a bicycle is for Riding.
Bungee jumping is an activity that people do for fun.
Something you find in a drawer is pillow cases.
Burlap is a coarse fabric.
You are likely to find a bomb in a bomber.
an escalator is a moving stairway.
Sometimes playing soccer causes anger.
A biriani is a rice-based Indian dish.
Floors are often carpeted.
Garlic is a flavor that people use to cook shrimp.
orange juice is a common source of vitamin c.
You can use a stylus to write.
Something that might happen when you contemplate is you get ideas.
Burgundy is a region in France.
Rabbits are pets.
A wart is a lump on your finger.
Something that might happen while enjoying the company of your friends is laughter.
a fuel is a storable source of energy.
If you want to hear singing then you should go to church.
Reading books is a pleasant human activity.
Something that might happen as a consequence of learning about a subject is you advance.
A kiss is a gesture of great personal affection between two people.
Something you might do while having food is drinking.
A subway pass is a ticket onto a subway.
Something that might happen as a consequence of riding a bike is you fall.
An acronym is a form of abbreviation made by taking the first letter of each word.
You are likely to find a beaver in a beaver's dam.
Satan is a fallen angel.
Something that might happen as a consequence of eating lunch is you gain weight.
jumping at a chance is an idiom.
Sometimes sleeping at night causes restfulness.
Balance is an important quality.
One of the things you do when you see a band is hear music.
Bicycling is an aerobic sport.
Golden Retrievers are types of dogs.
a pocket knife is a useful item for boys to carry.
You can use a radio to hear news.
hockey is a rough game.
A grocer can bag groceries.
Volkswagen is a company that manufactures cars.
a checkbook cover is used for protecting checks.
smell is an important sense.
Tulips are a kind of flower.
You would buy a shirt because you want to own a new shirt.
the Indian Ocean is used for sailing.
A bicycle is a tool for exploring.
A helmet protects the head from injury.
a ticket is a token of the right to admission.
Something you need to do before you talk to someone is think of something to say.
Hawaii is a great place to go on vacation.
crossing the street is for getting to something on the other side of the street.
A kitchen is a place for food preparation.
An atom is part of a molecule.
One kind of toy is a unicycle.
Something you find in a jar is food.
Earth's supply of wood is a limited resource.
a soldier is used for protecting a country.
A cappuccino is a gourmet coffee.
All humans need to sleep.
If you want to see art then you should go to the art gallery.
The effect of sending e-mail is communication.
a kayak is a small, light boat.
A mouse is part of a computer.
living room is a space in a house.
You are likely to find a small dog in a dog house.
television is a good way to keep up with news.
breathing some fresh air requires inhaling.
a credit card is an economic tool.
Cats are inquisitive.
A single rosebud is a beautiful gift.
attending a classical concert requires a ticket.
Jam is a popular spread for toast.
changing your appearance is for disguising yourself.
Globes are round.
Groucho Marx is a dead comedian.
The effect of finding the truth is enlightenment.
a thumb tack is a tool for attaching things to bulletin boards.
A person wants good luck.
a cock is a male chicken.
If you want to get clean then you should take a bath.
College is a place to learn by taking classes.
a garage is for parking the car.
Rock and Roll is a type of popular music.
Something you find in a cupboard is jars.
a cemetery is a quiet peaceful place.
Somewhere a fan can be is in a stadium.
mountain climbing is a physical activity.
Something you find atop a mountain is a peak.
You would drive a car because you want to go somewhere.
You are likely to find a niece in a family.
a snow flurry is a light snowfall.
Something you find at home is mom.
working out would make you want to sleep at night.
Something you find at a bus depot is a bench.
Leisure Program ACT is a recreational activity program in a local community setting.
You are likely to find a cat in your yard.
walking requires moving your legs.
HBO is a television station that many people enjoy watching.
You are likely to find a kosher deli in New York.
hat is a status symbol.
a cloud is made of water.
Something you need to do before you wait your turn is get into line.
Polo is a game people play on horseback.
bagpipes are used for playing Scottish music.
an automobile is a sort of portable motel room for young adults.
using a computer requires having a computer.
basketball is a fast moving sport.
a rook is a type of bird.
Pierce Brosnan is a boring actor.
people fear death.
walking on the beach is a favorite pastime a person wants to be excited.
A carafe is a bottle made of glass.
Something that might happen while having friends over is a party.
Books are a source of knowledge.
a volcano can erupt.
a tire pump is a useful tool.
organ is a musical instrument.
Oldsmobile is a division of General Motors.
a person wants to eat every day.
a highway is a high volume road.
the sun is a source of light.
Sinus Sabaeus is a dark region on Mars.
You can use a sofa bed to sleep.
MDMA is a empherical drug.
horses wear horseshoes.
Monty python is a television show.
Bagels are chewy.
Kanun is a stringed instrument.
You are likely to find a chess pawn in a chess game.
Ornamental cabbage is an annual plant.
If you want to sew then you should find a needle and thread.
A computer is a powerful and effective research tool.
a person doesn't want to be punished.
A window is an area that displays information on a desktop.
You are likely to find a small dog in Paris.
Martha Stewart is a fussy old prude.
The ribbon is yellow. It reminds me of a sunny morning.
a yellow jackets' nest is a good place to avoid.
A judge can fine a law breaker.
watching TV is for learning.
writing requires paper.
Soup is a light meal.
rubber chickens are sometimes funny.
Putting into jail is a punishment.
Something that might happen as a consequence of doing some exercises is getting in shape.
a chocoholic is a person addicted to chocolate.
Curry is a spice found in Indian recipes.
Coffee is a drug.
Stephen King is a famous horror writer.
Something you need to do before you surf the net is have a computer.
A river is a long flowing body of water.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking a phone call is talking.
An incoming connection is a connection established by a remote computer to your computer.
Something you find at a hotel is towels.
This image is a photograph of an old-fashioned key.
People are kind.
a pair of pants is a single garment.
You are likely to find a potato in a farm.
Life is a moment in space.
a display cabinet is a piece of furniture used to display things.
pain is a sensation.
Yodeling is a funny way of singing.
You are likely to find a bus station in the city.
You are likely to find a plane in the sky.
cats like to eat fish.
French toast is a kind of breakfast food.
A scalpel is used for cutting.
a lifesaver is a type of candy and a type of rescue device.
Two wrongs do not make a right.
a minister is part of a cabinet.
a person doesn't want to be a slave.
Something you need to do before you pass a class is pass a test.
a column is used for support.
A tire is part of a car.
If you want to use a television then you should plug it in.
A goose is a bird.
You are likely to find a revolver in the holster.
Something you might do while smoking is inhale.
sewing requires a needle.
A shoe has laces.
You are likely to find a chess pawn in a chess set.
A car radio.
Mercury is the first planet from the Sun.
paying cash is for buying.
Something you find at a street corner is a stop sign.
Sugar is a carbohydrate.
archers can miss the mark.
A nose can smell things.
You are likely to find a stick in the forest.
A person doesn't want misery.
The first thing you do when you talk to someone is open your mouth.
a desire to marry would make you want to propose to a woman.
Something that might happen as a consequence of writing is the get your hand tired.
an orchestra pit is for an orchestra to sit in.
contemplating is for thinking about something.
stairs are for walking down.
Something you find on a table is dust.
You are likely to find a potato in Ireland. 
Something you find in a car is seat belts.
If you want to buy a beer then you should go to the liquor store.
Something you find at a hockey game is fans.
You are likely to find the Indian Ocean in the east.
A preacher is a kind of church leader.
Something you might do while driving is turn the steering wheel.
One of the things you do when you go to a baseball game is drink beer.
Something you find at home is comfort.
referees can time races.
a dryer can dry clothing.
Sometimes washing dirt from between your toes causes clean feet.
You are likely to find a bed sheet in a linen closet.
You are likely to find information in a book.
pine is a plant.
The sky is usually blue during the day.
You are likely to find an airplane seat in an airplane.
Something you might do while giving a clue is making a gesture.
Something you need to do before you learn about science is go to school.
Children can share toys.
Nightingale is a bird.
If you want to play games then you should find someone to play them with.
Something you need to do before you earn a living is get a job.
If you want to pretend then you should act.
Cats like to chase mice.
You would do some exercises because you want to get in shape.
making bread is for eating.
a mathematician can prove a theorem.
If you want to cut your hair then you should go to a barber shop.
You can use a French horn to play music.
Something you find at a synagogue is Jewish people.
children can borrow money from their parents.
Falcon is a bird.
Something you find in the basement is rats.
a teakettle is used for making tea.
pate is a French word.
a basket is for carrying something.
Something you might do while playing basketball is run.
Penguins eat fish.
a judge can right wrongs.
Something you find in a bus is a driver.
rods are used for fishing.
a back garden is used for growing vegetables.
Something you need to do before you drive is start the car.
You are likely to find a character in a play in a theater.
Onions are a kind of vegetables.
a bass fiddle is used for playing music.
There are twenty-six letters in the English alphabet.
Something you find in a street is street light.
You are likely to find a xylophone in the percussion section.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in a home.
a keyboard is for playing music.
a country is on a continent.
If you want to play basketball then you should go to a basketball court.
You are likely to find a marmot in the dictionary.
Something you need to do before you eat is prepare food.
competing requires an opponent.
You are likely to find a show in a television.
plants create oxygen.
A roof is the top of a house.
You are likely to find a cow in a farmyard.
You are likely to find a taxiway in a city.
a wheel is part of a bicycle.
A pilot can fly a helicopter.
A poodle is a kind of dog.
children learn by doing.
Perch is a type of fish.
People need love.
an entrance is used for entering.
The flowers brighten the room up.
You would eat healthily because you want to be healthy.
You are likely to find a living room in a house.
Horses can carry people.
You would go to the hairdresser because your hair is too long.
If you want to clean clothing then you should put them in the washer.
a temple is for worshiping. 
A baby can sleep a lot.
Sometimes eating breakfast in bed causes a spill.
You would take a walk because you're restless.
Argyre is a bright region on Mars.
A battery can power a flashlight.
Something you need to do before you wash your hands is turn on the faucet.
Something that might happen when you pass your university exams is you graduate.
a fan cools the air.
You are likely to find a typewriter ribbon in a typewriter.
A computer stores data.
You are likely to find a hide-a-bed sofa in the living room.
a person doesn't want to bleed.
cabinets are used for storage.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to the store is buying groceries.
People fall in love.
You can use a liquor glass to drink liquor.
A text is a book used for learning by a class.
jeans are for wearing.
If you want to sit quietly then you should sit by yourself.
a person wants to laugh.
accidents happen.
Something that might happen when you sit on a chair is your knees bend.
Banks hold money.
lies are unreliable information.
a blow dryer is for drying hair.
committing to memory requires studying.
If you want to take a walk then you should take one step after the other.
You would write a term paper because you want to pass a course.
You are likely to find a river in a valley.
Something you find at a park is park benches.
a person doesn't want terrorism.
a person wants to enjoy life.
The effect of eating ice cream is happiness.
a person can borrow money from the bank.
Most humans have two legs.
A desk is a place to do work.
playing football is for fun.
a furniture dresser is used for storing clothes.
You would buy products because you want to use them.
Python is a programming language.
Something that might happen as a consequence of killing people is you get arrested.
Listening to music is pleasurable.
Something that might happen while washing dirt from between your toes is you use soap.
You are likely to find a spoon in a drawer.
Something that might happen when you change your appearance is you grow a beard.
a mailbox is for receiving letters.
Sometimes drinking causes stupidity.
You are likely to find a snare drum in a drum kit.
Something that might happen as a consequence of posting a message is someone replies taking the stand requires taking an oath.
Something you find in the refrigerator is tomatoes.
Contentment is a good feeling.
comforting a friend requires some empathy.
women wear dresses. men do not.
Something that might happen while drilling a hole is you plug in the drill.
Bahrain is an island in the Persian gulf.
Something that might happen as a consequence of resting is you fall asleep.
Something you find at a fair is Ferris wheel.
racism is bad.
Wood is a hard, useful material from tree trunks.
Something you might do while meeting a friend is hug.
striking a match is for lighting a fire.
Something that might happen while posting a message is you get an answer.
A jet is a very fast, powerful airplane.
mom would make you want to eat vegetables.
Penguins live in Antarctica.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing ball is you have fun.
A yard is a small outside area.
Something that might happen as a consequence of eating a hamburger is cows die.
Snails live in shells.
The effect of going for a swim is relaxation.
A hedgehog is a small mammal with a spiny coat.
Something that might happen while loving someone else is trust is established.
Food is used for nourishment.
Open Mind commonsense is a commonsense knowledge base.
Sometimes creating an idea causes innovation.
blue is a primary color.
You would jump rope because you want to exercise and have fun.
a violin is a musical instrument.
People enjoy eating together.
You are likely to find a leaf in a forest.
Life is a downhill adventure.
Something you find in a meadow is daisies.
a harmonica is used for making music.
You would sleep at night because you want to have rest.
A kite is an object attached to some string that floats in the wind.
Something that might happen when you paint a house is fall of a ladder.
a person wants to not feel pain.
Something you find at a school is a bell.
A drum is a wonderful device for making noise.
Something you might do while reaching a tentative agreement is compromising.
Something you find at a park is open space.
Something you find at a state park is picnic tables.
A viola is a larger sized, lower pitched violin.
You are likely to find an anemone in a tide pool.
You can use a restaurant entrance to enter the restaurant.
playing the violin requires lots of practice.
Tamsk is a game for two players.
The first thing you do when you go to a sporting event is buy a ticket.
A maple is a kind of tree.
a cottage is for vacationing in.
A microphone boom is a very maneuverable fulcrum balance.
Wires can short circuit.
Toronto is in Canada.
Something you find on a freeway is road kill.
basketball is a popular team sport.
Something you find in the forest is moss.
Earth is a world that is the name of our planet.
Something you find at a bookstore is novels.
Flash memory is a digital recording medium.
If you want to drill a hole then you should get a drill.
zero is a number.
Something you need to do before you walk the dog is put the dog on a leash.
A stove is a device for heating food.
You can use a salad spinner to dry lettuce.
A backyard is a piece of land behind a house owned by the owners of the house.
Something you find in a cupboard is tea.
A Palm is a small computer.
If you want to ride a horse then you should get a saddle.
A notebook is a book with blank pages to write in.
You are likely to find a balcony seat in theaters.
Armenia is a very small country in Eurasia.
You are likely to find a crab in your own freezer.
Hugging is a way of showing affection.
Something that might happen while grooming is brushing hair.
an archway is a safe place to be during an earthquake.
Something that might happen while playing chess is you lose.
A pond is a small body of water surrounded by land.
People sleep in bedrooms.
Free BSD is an open source operating system.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having a shower is feeling clean.
Amber is a yellowish hardened tree resin.
Bicycles have pedals.
Peace is absence of violence.
You are likely to find a leg in a bucket of chicken.
A gyroscope is a spinning wheel set in a movable frame.
people use baggage to carry things.
A Venus fly trap is a carnivore.
If you want to read a book then you should turn on the light.
Thought Treasure is a commonsense knowledge base.
Sometimes hurting someone else causes guilt.
A tablespoon is a form of measurement in baking.
The last thing you do when you listen to the radio is turn the radio off.
A carriage is an unpowered box on wheels.
A living room is a room used by a family for general shared activities.
BMW is a brand of car.
One of the things you do when you go to market is buy things.
Dublin is a city in Ireland.
A baseball player can catch a ball.
Smog in cities is an increasing health hazard.
gathering energy for tomorrow requires sleep.
porter is a very dark beer.
Something you find in the refrigerator is cheese.
academy is another word for school.
finding information is for learning something.
A lab is another name for Labrador retriever which is a kind of dog.
running after the ball requires legs.
One of the things you do when you wash clothes is add water.
Iron can be magnetized.
pollution is a danger to the environment.
people need to exercise.
If you want to make friends then you should have an open mind.
running is a way to get somewhere fast.
You are likely to find a human in a chair.
a trigger is a curved piece of metal operated by a person's finger.
Something that might happen while catching mumps is going to a doctor.
Nissan is a Japanese brand of motor cars.
ICQ is a popular chat program.
A rectangle is a four-sided figure.
You are likely to find a duck in a lake.
a lawn is a place outside.
bread has a crust.
An underground area is an area below the ground.
a stool is a 3-legged chair.
a doctor is a medical professional.
cats can see in the dark.
A unicorn is a mythical magical horned horse.
A trombone is used for playing music.
a kitchen clock is a clock hung in the kitchen.
a helium balloon is for decorating for a party.
Blowing out candles is a tradition at birthdays.
One of the things you do when you eat dinner is chewing.
You can use a check to pay.
a contract is a legal, binding instrument.
You are likely to find a museum wing in a museum.
aetna is an insurance provider for medical coverage.
You are likely to find a baking oven in the kitchen.
an eatery is a common term for a low-cost restaurant.
Beijing is in China.
a cord is a unit of measurement in relation to chopped wood.
Something you find at a concert is an audience.
A screwdriver is a drink with orange juice and vodka.
Pine is a soft wood.
a research group is a group that does research.
a knob is used for opening doors.
going to the doctor is a smart thing to do.
You are likely to find a blowfish in a fish tank.
A pillow case is a covering for a pillow.
dogs can sense fear.
A king is a piece used in the game of chess.
One of the things you do when you type is press keys.
a hill is an elevation in the landscape.
eating breakfast is for satisfying hunger.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
water in the ocean contains salt.
a violin is a very delicate piece of equipment.
a cinema is used for watching films.
basketball is a physical contest.
You are likely to find a condo in any city.
You are likely to find a heifer in a dairy.
You are likely to find a vending stand in a city.
dust in the air is a form of pollution.
a luggage carrier is for carrying luggage.
a kayak is a vehicle that floats on water.
Taking a meal together is a social custom.
ovens are used to bake cakes.
water is air in liquid form.
Something that might happen as a consequence of receiving a degree is getting a better job.
Far Darrig is a solitary fairy in Celtic lore.
Sometimes going to a movie causes you to be entertained.
A bathroom is an important room in a house.
Trees grow towards the sun.
Feeling romantic is an emotion.
You are likely to find a lizard in Arizona.
a bus pass is a ticket for a bus that works for one month.
You would go to the store because you want to buy something.
Champagne is an expensive wine for special occasions. 
The effect of getting a job is that you earn money.
Dispute is an angry exchange of contradictory statements.
You are likely to find a marmot in the jungle.
shared food is a social bond.
You are likely to find a marmot in the woods.
One of the things you do when you shoot a gun is aim.
A walk in the woods is a pleasant experience.
skiing is an event in the Olympics. 
A flask is a container.
a cruise ship is a floating hotel.
Something you find in the newspaper is the comics.
A basketball is a good example of a sphere.
Something you find at a roadblock is police officers.
Pointillism is a system of color mixing based on the juxtaposition of small bits of pure color.
You would cook because you want to eat.
Sailing is a form of recreation for some people.
You are likely to find a human in a store.
A dollar is a type of money.
A spoon is a utensil.
Fruit is a necessary portion of the human diet.
Something you find at a fork in the road is a choice.
Fantasy is another word for make-believe.
Waiters serve food in restaurants.
Floating in the ocean is a weightless experience.
Legs are used to run.
Iron is a hard substance.
marriage is a very important thing in life.
a person wants to survive.
Musical notation is a kind of language.
Something you find in a bedroom is a lamp.
Hawaii is a tropical island.
some animals live in burrows.
a story is a horizontal level in a building.
cups are containers.
A globe is a 3-dimensional map of the world.
Thunder is a low-pitched noise that follows lightning.
fruit is a source of food for humans and other animals.
A dog is a faithful companion.
software that crashes often is an example of a bad product.
red wine is a kind of wine.
champagne is an effervescent type of wine.
An alley is a narrow road between buildings.
Person is another word for human being.
An allergy is a negative reaction to a part of the environment.
A cup of coffee is a pleasant way to relax.
Apple juice is a healthy drink.
a pencil is a tool for writing and drawing.
Badminton is a very popular sport in Malaysia.
time is a very boring thing.
A mummy is a preserved dead body.
learning is a joy.
Spin is a concept in physics. 
Buying a home is a major step in people's lives.
freshman is a class in school.
a flower bed is a big patch of ground with lots of flowers planted in it.
A motherboard is a circuitry board.
A cluricaun is a cross between a leprechaun and a hobgoblin.
singing is a way to express yourself.
Money is another way to exchange trade.
an art school is a school that teaches art.
space flight is a popular fantasy of humans.
a chess king is a piece in a chess game.
Sears-Roebuck is a department store that issues credit cards to its customers.
Nolan Ryan is a famous pitcher.
Atlantis is a mythical continent.
A helicopter is a rotary wing aircraft.
exercise is a healthy activity.
time is a linear concept.
a stadium is a big place.
A flag is a symbolic representation of a nation.
Tread is a pattern of indentations and grooves on a piece of material that allows the material to cling to a surface.
an amphitheater is a circular open-air performing venue.
A nuclear submarine is a powerful weapon.
a bolt is a nut and a screw.
horse jumping is a very demanding sport for both horse and rider.
A lawn is an unnecessary agricultural enterprise.
Pottery is a common type of artifact found by archaeologists.
Some baskets are made of plastic.
pipe smoking is a common recreation.
General is a high rank.
Star Wars is a science fiction movie.
A national hub is a central controlling and routing site for a national network.
coffee is a popular morning drink.
Luck is a fickle mistress.
working together is a good way to learn new things.
An egg timer is a long standing method of measuring time.
a dome is an architectural achievement.
A domainised name is a structured name for a computer in a network.
hockey is a low-scoring sport.
A salve is a healing ointment.
vacuuming is a good way to clean the home.
A tugboat is a small powerful boat for towing ships.
Golf is a healthy pastime.
Stonehenge is an ancient site in England.
Honey is a sticky substance.
perjury is a lie while under oath.
a stethoscope is a medical device.
smoke is a bad practice for health.
Stamping is a process that creates an impression on the stamped surface.
Learning to type is a useful skill.
one type of a woodwind instrument is a clarinet.
Mercury is the only pure metal which is a liquid at room temperature.
a heart is a biological pump within the body of an animal.
One of the things you do when you learn is absorb information.
Walking is an aerobic activity.
DNA is a building block for life.
a floor is a horizontal plane.
Sushi is a Japanese meal of raw and cooked fish with rice and seaweed.
Tiger Woods is a talented golf player.
a water softener is a device that removes minerals from water.
hot air ballooning is a hobby for some people.
ER is a show about a hospital.
fencing is an unusual sport.
a chain is a useful tool.
A credit card is a piece of plastic used by humans to achieve a state of bankruptcy.
a sunset is a great way to end a stressful day.
a rubber chicken is a funny toy.
acne is a skin condition common to teenagers.
Finger painting is a way for young children to create art.
A cu sith is a green dog in Celtic lore.
Morphine is also a sedative and a pain-killer.
friction is an opposing force to motion.
sky blue is a color.
Ruby is a pure object-oriented scripting language.
Hawk is a powerful spirit symbol.
Cross country skiing is a way to travel across the snow.
plastic is a man made product.
A watch is an invention to keep track of time.
love is hormonal reactions.
window washing is a tiresome task.
excessive surveillance is an intrusion on privacy.
a disk is a way of saving information.
A straight flush is a great poker hand.
A classroom is a physical setting used for teaching and learning.
a passport is an official document issued by government agency to permit travel to a foreign land.
This ball is a special one made for the game of basketball.
Existentialism is a reaction to the influence of technology.
Combing hair is a daily part of many peoples' lives.
etiquette is a formal statement of rules of polite manners.
Hysteria is a form of neurotic breakdown which is more common among extroverts. 
fresh fruit is a refreshing snack.
an arch is a graceful curve.
an audience is a gathering of people with the purpose of watching a performance.
Mongolia is a country located in Asia.
Loyalty is a rare commodity.
Florida is a location for launching shuttles into space.
a living room is a place to relax.
Hot Springs is a city in Arkansas.
Wood is a valuable renewable resource.
a sea shell is a discarded exoskeleton for a marine animal.
table tennis is an athletic hobby.
Flu is a contagious disease.
Magritte is a great painter.
costume jewelry is a popular adornment for the human body.
An hourglass is an ancient form of measuring time.
Viola is an annual plant.
A mini bar is a small bar.
people is a synonym for persons.
A highway is a human construction.
Mona Lisa is a famous painting by Leonardo da Vinci.
whittling is an art form that is based on wood.
a car manufacturer is a company that makes cars.
An hour glass is an instrument used to measure a unit of time.
Creeping phlox is a ground cover. 
Providing leave for hospitalization is a common accommodation for people with psychiatric disabilities.
flavored sugar water is a billion dollar industry in the world.
Aeria is a light region on Mars.
time is a human invention.
Social phobia is a phobia of situations that involve public scrutiny.
A canal is a water way.
Hemophilia is a noncontagious disease.
An eraser is analog.
a Mexican restaurant is a place to eat ethnic Mexican food.
a Spanish restaurant is a place to eat Spanish food.
Feeling sore is an indication of injury.
color is a way for us to identify animals and plants.
Seeking reassurance is a very common compulsive ritual for patients with OCD.
Seattle is a city on the pacific coast of the United States.
A diamond is a valuable gem.
good horsemanship is a skill that takes years of practice.
A beam is a wooden ceiling support.
A scroll arrow is an arrow on either end of a scroll bar.
a tuba is an instrument in a band.
a bar is a business that sells alcoholic drinks.
astronomy is an ancient science.
A birthday is a happy time.
Isis is an ancient Egyptian deity.
One of the things you do when you eat a cookie is enjoy it.
Velvet is a luxurious fabric.
A nightmare is a frightening dream.
a pad is a mass of material used as a cushion.
A vampire is a fictional creature that drinks blood.
a forest is a dense array of trees of varying ages.
a marina is a secure dock for keeping pleasure boats.
Nature is a great place.
Canada Dry is a soft drink.
One person's truth is another man's lie.
Finger painting is a very messy activity.
Nilokeras is a darkish region on Mars.
Dancing in the ocean is a form of meditation.
Noctis Lacus is a darkish region on Mars.
skiing is a form of winter exercise and recreation.
Kangaroo meat is a healthy alternative to other red meats.
A blanket is a large piece of cloth.
Phaethontis is a light region on Mars.
Film is a series of pictures shown in rapid succession.
Experience is a personal reference.
A tree house is a place to view things from up above.
A Jacuzzi is a large bathtub which has jets of water.
Buzz Aldrin is a hero.
Laughing is a healthy, fun experience.
Sometimes reading causes ideas.
Intention is a mental decision to make an influence on the intensity of an action.
ice is a near frictionless surface.
A gallery is an exhibition space for art.
A sneeze is a very fast jet of air expelled from the nostrils.
A toothbrush is a tool to clean teeth.
A battery is a device that stores energy chemically.
A menu is a list of the types of food that a restaurant serves on a given day.
Labor day is a prime time for police road blocks.
an eraser is a tool to remove pencil marks from paper.
a cemetery is a sad place.
a stool is a backless chair.
Halloween is a pagan holiday.
ray Bradbury is a writer.
Nuclear meltdown is a rare type of major accident.
A coat-hanger is a useful device for putting clothes on.
Swimming is a good exercise for older people.
a chess pawn is a playing piece in the game of chess.
Reading is a great break from meetings.
lighting a fire is for heating things up.
baseball is a game people play.
a banjo is a guitar-like musical instrument.
Star Trek is a great show.
Workplace design is a significant predictor of privacy.
vanilla is a flavor for pudding.
gold thread false cypress is a plant.
babies can't talk.
a quarterback is a player in a game.
An umbrella is a device to protect something placed beneath it.
a beam is for supporting a roof.
A bomb is an object designed to explode.
Ben Leduc is a qualified mechanical engineer.
consumerism is a global evil.
eating is a social activity.
You are likely to find London in England.
Television is a way to receive information volitionally.
A plane is a machine.
a program is created by a programmer.
rodents are mammals.
A Swiss army knife is a useful tool.
a globe is a three-dimensional map of the world.
Canada is a country in North America.
the earth is mostly water.
Friday is a weekday.
A travellator is a moving sidewalk.
an explosive is used for destruction.
Ballooning is an expensive sport.
a prosthesis is an artificial body part.
North America is part of Earth.
You are likely to find a tablespoon in a kitchen drawer.
a pen can mark on paper.
An archaic name for one golf club is a spoon.
Something that might happen as a consequence of waging war is people die.
love would make you want to please your parents.
If you want to go into a coma then you should get into an accident.
An anniversary is a holiday.
You would help someone because you want to help.
You are likely to find a bone in your arm.
You are likely to find a rod in an engine.
A common movie role for Tim Curry is a villain.
dirt would make you want to clean your clothes.
You are likely to find a world in a galaxy.
If you want to change society then you should change yourself.
You are likely to find an anemone in water.
Something you find in a backpack is a map.
Something you find in a restaurant is people.
Something you find in the fridge is leftovers.
Scott Byrn is a Sales and Marketing Manager at PALM.
Singapore is a large refining center. 
You are likely to find a subway map in a subway.
a person doesn't want to get into an accident.
a person doesn't want meanness.
Bicycles can be fun to ride.
Gravity causes objects to fall.
A quarter is a coin that is worth one quarter of a dollar.
You are likely to find coffee in a cup.
You are likely to find a blanket in the bedroom.
Sheets are commonly white.
One of the things you do when you have an asthma attack is struggle to breathe.
Something you find on the floor is linoleum.
The first thing you do when you use the computer is turn it on.
a fork is for eating vegetables.
chopping firewood requires An Axe.
One of the things you do when you stand in a queue is get impatient.
One of the things you do when you dream is twitch.
a doctor can save lives.
You are likely to find a small dog in a small cage.
thinking is for deciding.
Table tennis is also called ping-pong.
Something you need to do before you read a magazine is pick it up.
Art is in the eye of the beholder.
a leader is for followers.
The first thing you do when you read a book is open the book.
listening to music requires an ear.
Something you might do while having a rest is relax.
Something you find in a classroom is chairs.
The effect of fiddling is making music.
Something that might happen when you have a heart attack is death.
A ship can weather a storm.
getting in shape is for having more energy.
a CD is used for storing information.
A telephone index is a place to look up phone numbers.
Something you find on the table is car keys.
If you want to light a match then you should have matches.
Something you find in the chemistry lab is chemists.
You are likely to find an audience in a show.
rosemary is a kind of herb.
Something you might do while getting some physical activity is running.
One of the things you do when you go see a film is buy a ticket.
The effect of listening to music is deafness.
You are likely to find a brother in your family.
You would score a home run because you want to win a baseball game.
If you want to listen to the radio then you should switch the radio on.
You can use a window to look out of.
If you want to make a shopping list then you should get paper and a pen.
You are likely to find a cat in cities.
You can use a sofa to relax.
Somewhere a chair can be is at a table.
You would visit other countries because you want vacation.
A store sells various items.
The effect of obstructing justice is injustice.
A cook can brown the meat.
Something you find in the attic is dust.
Something that might happen while watching TV is panic.
a person doesn't want to be made fun of.
the student can note a fact.
People dream things up.
Something you find at a home is a chair.
If you want to stand up then you should straighten your legs.
You are likely to find a grocery shop in a city.
Water can fill a bucket.
voltage is a measure of electricity.
Something you find at a bar is a bartender.
The effect of punching someone is a fight.
You would ride a horse because you enjoy it.
Something that might happen when you program is typing.
There are sixty minutes in an hour.
Something that might happen when you attend a rock concert is moshing.
You can use a theater box to watch a play.
Something that might happen as a consequence of chewing your food is good digestion.
Something you find under a tree is a squirrel.
a student is for learning.
Mars is the fourth planet from the sun.
a person doesn't want to be miserable.
The effect of competing is trying harder.
You can use chess set to have fun.
an entranceway is for going through.
Urine is usually yellow.
a hardware shop is for buying paint.
Magazines usually have pictures in them.
A terrorist can plant a bomb.
Cancer is a disease.
You can use an Italian restaurant to eat Italian food.
riding a bike requires pedaling. 
a linen closet is used for storing towels.
a tree is a large plant that has leaves and branches.
You are likely to find a human in trouble.
If you want to bathe then you should disrobe.
You are likely to find a kosher delicatessen in New York City.
cogitating requires thoughtfulness.
fiddling is for making music.
A horse can pull a cart.
going for a walk is for exercise.
A boat can go on the water.
riding a bike is a healthy pastime.
You are likely to find a tub in a bathroom.
If you want to eat in a restaurant then you should bring money.
a launch pad is for launching rockets in to space.
You are likely to find a heifer in a slaughterhouse.
driving a car is for transporting things.
Grass grows in the ground.
You can use a hook to catch a fish.
Something you find at a rest area is toilets.
A person can shoulder a burden.
Something that might happen when you go for a run is dogs follow you.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking an exam is getting a grade.
a pool is a man made body of water.
You are likely to find a ficus in an office.
a tank is a motorized artillery gun.
having a shower requires water and soap.
A yo-yo is a type of toy.
You are likely to find a hair accessory in a bathroom.
bob Dylan is a good folk singer.
a chess king is used for playing chess.
coffee is a bushy plant that grows in warm climates.
Something you find in a laboratory is chemicals.
Something you might do while waiting on tables is bring water.
Something you find at a race track is a bookie.
Dianthus is an annual plant.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in the Indian ocean.
A diner is a place to eat.
One of the things you do when you take final exams is study.
Rose Art is a brand of crayons.
You are likely to find a bean in a soup.
a walk in closet is a luxury.
a clarinet is used for making music.
Lotus is a word processor.
Something that might happen when you take in a film is being entertained.
Mountain Dew is a popular soda.
Thumb tacks can be sharp.
needing groceries would make you want to make a shopping list.
A latte is a kind of coffee drink.
joy is a pleasant emotion.
Something you find in a house is rugs.
bringing in a verdict is for judges to do.
Something that might happen as a consequence of sleeping is rest.
Sometimes hearing testimony causes doubt and snickers.
Something you find on a freeway is a traffic jam.
A catwalk is narrow.
Something you find in the oven is heat.
Something you find at a mall is people.
You are likely to find a movie theater in a mall.
Golfers can drive a ball.
Something that might happen as a consequence of eating a cookie is you want another one.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in a house.
an airplane has propellers.
riding a bicycle requires pedaling.
Something you might do while taking care of proposals is think.
conquering a nation requires a big army.
Sometimes viewing a video causes you to fall asleep.
a cat is used for a pet.
Something you might do while cleaning is dust.
Something that might happen while going to a baseball game is you eat some peanuts.
Something that might happen as a consequence of opening a business is you get rich.
watching television requires electricity.
Something that might happen while learning a language is you make a mistake.
If you want to attend a rock concert then you should purchase a ticket.
You can use a board game to have fun.
If you want to go to get a haircut then you should make an appointment.
You are likely to find a file in filing cabinet.
Something that might happen as a consequence of driving to work is you use gas.
a car can be heavy.
true love would make you want to propose to a woman.
a paper fastener is for holding paper together.
excitement would make you want to play hockey.
You would buy a hamburger because you are hungry.
Something that might happen while lying is panic.
An activity an employer can do is fire employees.
One of the things you do when you get onto the web is check email.
a house is a shelter.
diamonds are pretty.
Something you might do while hiking is drink water.
Something that might happen while surfing is a shark attack.
satisfying your hunger requires food.
Rain is wet.
a ball is for playing a game.
surfing is for having fun.
Sometimes making people laugh causes popularity.
helmets are for protection.
depression would make you want to stay in bed.
You can use a reception to celebrate.
a moving walkway is for transportation.
Something you might do while praying is close eyes.
weeding the garden requires knowledge.
War is a dangerous action.
One of the things you do when you fall is hit the ground.
A player is part of a team.
a loft is used for sleeping.
If you want to hike then you should go to a mountain.
Something that might happen while eating breakfast in bed is getting crumbs in bed.
Something you need to do before you talk to someone is get their attention.
Something that might happen while playing a game is you roll dice.
being a jury would make you want to decide a criminal's fate.
The effect of attending a lecture is learning.
If you want to watch TV then you should turn it on.
Something you find at a fraternity house is students.
Something you find in the air is a kite.
Sometimes having an examination causes worry.
The effect of watching a TV show is laughter.
You would go on a vacation because you want to rest.
You are likely to find a furniture dresser in a furniture store.
Something that might happen as a consequence of falling is getting hurt.
You are likely to find a page in a book.
The effect of committing to memory is remembering.
a person wants to know all.
Something that might happen when you test the car is you crash into a tree.
Something that might happen as a consequence of seeing a movie is you cry.
Something you find in the corner is a right angle.
creating an idea requires imagination.
Something you find in the fridge is leftovers.
You can use a spray hose to spray water.
You can use a forklift to carry things.
singing requires sounds.
This world is called Earth.
Something you might do while gaining more land is get a mortgage.
You are likely to find a ceiling in a room.
Something that might happen when you jump rope is you step on the dog.
You are likely to find a snake in Australia.
You would program because you want to learn.
One of the things you do when you study for a subject is read books.
A woman is a female which is the opposite of a male.
You can use a knight to play chess.
Something that might happen while lighting a match is you burn your finger.
You are likely to find an apple in a grocery store.
One of the things you do when you have food is chew.
a salad bowl is used to hold salad.
Somewhere a clock can be is on the wall.
needing clean clothes would make you want to go to a Laundromat.
You are likely to find a saucepan in the kitchen.
You are likely to find a shopping center in a suburb.
Iraq is a country in the middle east.
You would watch a film because it is entertaining.
Breathing requires air.
passing your university exams is for getting your degree.
Something you need to do before you bake a cake is turn on the oven.
flying in an airplane requires having a pilot's license.
A farmer can feed chickens.
Something you need to do before you see old things is go to an antique store.
You would serve justice because you want to do right.
You are likely to find a mayor in town.
Something you find in the mail is an advertisement.
You are likely to find a son in family.
A farmer can plant corn.
A woman can marry a man.
One of the things you do when you buy a house is move in.
Something you need to do before you open a business is take out a loan.
a team would make you want to play lacrosse.
A baking oven is hot.
You would read a book because you want to be entertained.
A pet is used for companionship.
Something that might happen when you wait tables is you spill soup.
A person can sing songs.
People usually have five fingers on each hand.
a person can captain a ship.
Something that might happen as a consequence of cleaning your room is you have less dust.
You would work because you want to earn money.
a card is for Playing games with.
a vessel is a container.
Sometimes cooling off causes chills.
Something you might do while listening to the radio is tune in a station.
You are likely to find an automatic gate in a gated community.
Something you find in a field is wild flowers.
hitting the bottle requires booze.
You are likely to find a steel cable in a suspension bridge.
space is big. really big.
You would go off strike because you want more money.
Something that might happen while taking an examination is you fail.
A hamburger is food.
dirtiness would make you want to clean.
Something you might do while buying something for a loved one is smile.
You would work because you want money.
doing some exercises requires effort.
people eat birds.
Sometimes going jogging causes you to feel pride.
Something you find on the surface of the moon is moon dust.
Something that might happen when you shop is you have fun.
You are likely to find an anemone in the coral reef.
A mother is a woman.
Sailors sail a boat.
driving your car is for getting other places.
flowers grow.
Musical instruments make sound.
You are likely to find a horse in a horse trailer.
a person doesn't want to be hospitalized.
Cotton is a fabric.
You would go to a restaurant because you're hungry.
The car has headlights.
Something you find at a car show is a new car.
a child is a small, young person.
If you want to bring home some fish then you should go to a fish market.
a ticket costs money.
You would eat a hamburger because you were hungry.
a gel toothpaste is used for brushing teeth.
a boy can fancy a girl.
a company is an entity formed for the exchange of goods or services.
There is a swimming pool in a hotel. the hotel is next to the beach.
A screw is an inclined plane wrapped around a pole.
Sometimes playing basketball causes injuries.
Something that might happen as a consequence of washing your car is getting wet.
fans keep you cool.
A storm is a kind of weather.
receiving a degree requires going to school.
a sea is a body of salt water.
An invitation would make you want to go to a party.
A tone is a hue mixed with its compliment.
The first thing you do when you drive to work is get in the car.
Something you find on the surface of the earth is a mountain.
a person wants an easy life.
A lead pencil is for writing.
If you want to see a story then you should go to a movie.
hockey is a rough sport.
If you want to comfort a friend then you should hug them.
going to the doctor's is a drag.
The eraser is pink.
The moon reflects the light of the sun.
driving requires a license.
You are likely to find a fungus in a laboratory.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in pet shop.
If you want to cook a meal then you should gather the ingredients.
Doctors examine patients.
You would take a course because you want to learn.
A curtain hangs in a window.
Something you find in the freezer is frozen food.
Something you find at a bus stop is a passenger.
If you want to view a film at home then you should have a television.
a house has a living room.
getting some physical activity is for exercising.
Mammals breathe air.
A mandolin is a stringed instrument.
You are likely to find a doctor examination room in the hospital.
If you want to play poker then you should get some cards.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying presents for others is they thank you.
You are likely to find a small dog in a small dog house.
You are likely to find a train ticket in a train depot.
acting in a play requires memorizing lines.
If you want to meet people then you should go to the bar.
running twenty six miles is for marathoners.
You are likely to find a coin in a purse.
fish swim in the sea.
A minute is part of an hour.
printing on the printer is for printing.
Something you find at a street corner is street sign.
You are likely to find an adhesive bandage in a first aid kit.
Most people have two eyes.
Something you find in the street is a manhole cover.
sound does not travel in space.
You are likely to find an audience in a hockey game.
You are likely to find a bee in a flower bed.
a saloon is used for beer.
Something you find on a table is a vase.
Something you might do while mailing a letter is put a stamp on the envelope.
a person wants to feel comfortable.
You are likely to find a small dog in a yard.
You are likely to find a kitten in a box.
The effect of chewing your food is better digestion.
A prospector can mine for gold.
You are likely to find a restaurant bill in the restaurant.
Something that might happen when you clean the house is dust.
You are likely to find cloth in a fabric store.
Some people shop in malls.
You would take a bath because you want to clean yourself.
You are likely to find jeans in a closet.
a container cup is for holding liquids.
a person doesn't want to be cheated.
You are likely to find a bathroom with toilet in a house.
Ketchup is a condiment.
going fishing is for catching some fish.
You are likely to find a sound stage in a movie studio.
People can climb mountains.
The last thing you do when you have a physical exam is put your clothes back on.
You are likely to find a population in a country.
Something you find at a toy store is a game.
gold is a precious metal.
Something you find at work is a tool.
sand is found at the beach.
You are likely to find a ferret in pet shop.
Something that might happen as a consequence of soaking in a hot spring is you relax.
Something you find behind the refrigerator is dust bunnies.
Something you find on the street is stop signs.
Something you find at the beach is beach towels.
Export of services is a very strong sector of export growth for Australia.
A picture frame can hang on the wall.
fish need water.
You would rest because fatigue.
You are likely to find a soldier in a battle.
an explosive is for demolition.
a couch is for sleeping.
Something that might happen as a consequence of sleeping at night is dreaming.
A rubber chicken is not alive.
a piton is used to climb a mountain.
If you want to talk with someone far away then you should Call them on the phone.
a rope is used for tying things.
going to a film requires going to a movie theater.
If you want to express information then you should speak.
You can use a key case to hold keys.
Something you find in the universe is aliens.
Something you find in the fridge is butter.
You are likely to find a toothbrush head in the bathroom.
You are likely to find a shower head in the bathroom.
Something that might happen as a consequence of attending school is boredom.
You are likely to find a paper bill in wallet.
People ride bicycles.
Something you find at a concert is a guitar.
Penguins live in the cold.
people like to have fun.
music can sound good.
Eagles are raptors.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking a bath is you would be clean.
If you want to see artifacts then you should go to the museum.
dressing nice is for going on a date.
Plants have roots.
having friends over is for a party.
You would go see a play because you want entertainment.
Something you find in a bedroom is a wardrobe.
The effect of running out of steam is slowing down.
You are likely to find a koala in a eucalyptus tree in Australia.
Something that might happen while going to a film is you buy a ticket.
Something you find at a shop is the shopkeeper.
ducks are aquatic birds.
If you want to fish then you should go to the lake.
Something you find at dinner is food.
a mouth is for talking.
Antarctica is a cold place.
You are likely to find a grape in California.
A mom is a woman with children.
A mountain is very large.
A cane is a walking stick.
If you want to compute a sum then you should get a calculator.
A hatchet is an ax with a short handle.
Something that might happen while reaching a tentative agreement is negotiating.
a pub is a place.
The last thing you do when you go see a film is leave the theater.
a bar stool is used for sitting at a bar.
Tea is a beverage.
Humpty Dumpty is an egg in a fairy tale.
a bicycle has a chain.
a coach is a manager for a team.
You are likely to find a gazelle in Kenya.
Hawaii is a warm, humid, tropical place with beautiful water.
The first thing you do when you watch TV is turn on the TV.
Something you need to do before you have a party is send out invitations.
Leonardo di Caprio is an actor.
Fire needs oxygen.
Nokia is a Finnish company.
To understand the event "The Amish churn butter.", it is important to know that butter is a kind of food.
running is a way to exercise the cardiovascular system.
If you want to have a haircut then you should visit the barber.
A bridal shower is actually a party.
a person doesn't want to hurt people.
Rechberghausen is a small village in Germany.
A young child can wet a bed.
Vodka is a popular Russian drink.
If you want to see a band then you should buy tickets to the concert.
A TEACHER can state A FACT.
a hill is an area of earth above the surrounding area.
Something that might happen as a consequence of being in charge of a project is stress.
a horseshoe is a symbol for luck.
ducks eat bread.
Burgundy is a French red wine.
steeple chasing is a dangerous sport.
Apple juice is a healthy source of vitamins.
You would play games because they are fun.
a pocket watch is a type of watch that you carry in your pocket.
You are likely to find a launch complex in Florida.
A ale is a top fermented beer.
Pet is another word for an animal companion.
The first thing you do when you are born is cry.
A stranger is an unknown factor.
the flu is a virus.
couch is another word for sofa.
reaching a tentative agreement requires compromise.
a wedding is a traditional way to make a relationship official.
Something you find at a bowling alley is bowling pins.
A mayor is an elected official.
the Statue of Liberty is a symbol of freedom.
a troll is a mythical bogeyman.
If you want to test your strength then you should lift weights.
An athame is a double-edged dagger used for ritual use.
You can use a tuning fork to tune a musical instrument.
Nissan is a foreign car manufacturer.
Books contain words.
disinformation is a form of communication.
plants grow in the ground.
A rubber chicken is a common joke.
You are likely to find a cubicle in an office building.
a banjo is a guitar-like musical instrument.
Honesty is a virtue.
Sailing is an expensive water sport.
playing football requires a football.
Alcohol is a chemical that slows the reaction of the brain.
Camping can be very fun.
Mail is a means of communication between two people.
People are human beings.
exhaustion would make you want to sleep.
Rape is a crime against people.
If you want to go to bed then you should go to the bedroom.
A disc is an efficient way to store data.
wood can be polished.
Rotation is a very common manifestation of force in our cosmos.
Something you find in a family is love.
downhill skiing is a form of recreational skiing.
Something you need to do before you die is live.
argon is an inert gas.
marriage is a union.
A system is an organized set of phenomena.
Plants make their own food.
a nickname for a television is a TV.
a freeway is for driving on.
One of the things you do when you bring in a verdict is announce the verdict.
A wind can blow to the East.
time never stops.
You are likely to find a French restaurant in France A president of something is its leader.
a stethoscope is a good tool to hear breath sounds and heart sound.
Stout is a kind of beer.
gift-giving is a popular custom among many people.
Something that might happen as a consequence of breathing is oxygenating blood.
A cruise is a trip by boat taken for pleasure.
a person doesn't want to be scared.
Camping is a favorite activity of boy scouts.
seeing a band is for listening to music.
peanut butter is a spread made from peanuts.
The effect of going to school is learning.
cable is a synonym for telegram.
A person is an individual.
an index card is a small piece of lightweight card.
Sometimes advancing into battle causes death.
Watering a plant is a random act of kindness.
Some people enjoy socializing.
a living room is a room in a house.
You are likely to find a kitten in a litter box.
Something you might do while paying by check is sign the check.
A pool is a large quantity of water enclosed in an artificial hole in the ground.
Barbecue is a way to cook.
bread is a structural element in a sandwich.
People can borrow money from banks.
Time is an abstract concept.
An iceberg is a huge chunk of ice that floats in the water.
A scarf is an example of neck wear. 
You are likely to find a diner in a town.
A sea anemone is a predatory sea animal that looks like a flower and lives on the ocean floor.
A political struggle is a valiant action.
You are likely to find a notebook in school.
Primrose is an annual plant.
Something that might happen while going to the hairdresser is a hair cut.
A rubber chicken is a symbol of slapstick humor.
a person doesn't want their computer to crash.
Some people drink coffee to stay awake.
a cottage is a house.
Heat is a good source of warmth to humans.
dinner parties can be fun.
champagne is a sparkling wine used for celebrations.
A cupcake is a tiny cake.
a person wants talent.
a toy soldier is used for playing war games.
still water is a good reflector of light.
Cucumber is a cool, crisp vegetable that is good in salad.
navy blue is a color.
becoming inebriated is for forgetting of problems.
A dragon is a mystical animal.
An oil can is a container for oil.
James Bond is a popular character in many movies.
television is for entertainment.
ice is almost a frictionless surface.
Traffic congestion is a problem in cities.
A machine is a man-made object that does a task.
shouting at the top of your voice is for getting attention.
A good cruise is a vacation on a ship.
A dump truck is a great toy in a sandbox.
comfort is a good feeling.
Something you find at the gym is a weight.
an index card cabinet is a piece of furniture used for storing and organizing index cards.
A piglet is a young pig.
riding a bike is for having fun.
a person doesn't want food poisoning.
A verb is an action word.
A cactus is a prickly plant that lives in dry places.
Something you find on your finger is a fingernail.
Something you find in the belly of a whale is plankton.
Rubber Duckies are Yellow.
stapling things together is a way to hold them together.
Antarctica is a continent.
You are likely to find an album in a record store.
a cube has six sides.
An emotion is a way of thinking.
A church is a place that people go to worship.
You are likely to find a mouse in mouse hole. 
If you want to stand in a queue then you should get in line.
Ham Radio is a form of communication.
Meditation is a skill.
You are likely to find a grape in a bunch with other grapes.
a medal is awarded for bravery in battle.
an alley is a passage between buildings.
meditation calms the soul.
hard hats protect your head.
Something you find on your desk is a mess.
Consciousness is a subjective experience.
You are likely to find bleachers in a gymnasium.
Horses have hooves.
Something you need to do before you go to the hairdresser is make an appointment.
marriage is a good and strong commitment.
Rubber bands are stretchy.
a person doesn't want to be neglected.
You are likely to find an eating place in a restaurant.
War is a very sad display of our human species' weaknesses.
A living room is a great place to relax and watch TV.
a rock is an inanimate object.
Something you find in a restaurant is a waitress.
Star Trek is a favorite sci-fi TV show.
Something you find in the kitchen is knives.
a person wants to fall in love.
You would act in a play because you are an actor.
Uranus is the seventh planet from the sun.
lamps give light.
War is a mechanism for resolving conflict.
A balcony railing is a safety device.
A necktie is a narrow band of fabric tied around the neck.
a friend is for confiding.
You can use a hide-a-bed sofa to sleep guests.
Canopus is a star.
a University is a place.
tropical fish are often very colorful.
An amphitheater is a round theater with good acoustics.
Bankruptcy planning is all about gaining time.
A fawn is a young deer.
The last thing you do when you light a match is blow it out.
A unicorn is a mythical, one-horned animal.
A spiral binding is a type of book binding.
A dolphin is a marine mammal with a long nose and teeth.
A mansion is a type of house.
a man's house is a man's castle.
A fitting room is a one-person room for trying on clothes.
A walrus is a northern marine mammal with ivory tusks.
Something you find in the street is litter.
A century is a hundred years.
Wired magazine is a magazine about the technical economy.
Divorce is a painful experience.
a speech is a way to talk to many people.
football is a sport people play.
A loft is a place to store many useless things.
Something you find in class is pencils.
Petroleum is a thick, flammable, yellow-to-black liquid hydrocarbon mixture.
One of the things you do when you tape a television show is act.
Something you find in a trunk is old clothing.
music is a sequence of sounds.
C++ is a computer programming language.
A coin purse is a small purse that holds coins.
Something you find at home is a pet.
a steak house is a good place to eat.
a harbor is a protected area of water.
a ballad is a long song that tells a story.
a monitor is a name for a type of computer screen.
a pool is a large amount of water that people swim in.
An airfoil is a device which gets a useful reaction from air moving over its surface.
a Jew's harp is a folk instrument.
a veterinarian is a doctor.
A rhinoceros is a mammal.
A blender is a small electric device used in a kitchen to turn soft edible objects into juice.
music is a way to let out emotions.
A vest is a sleeveless piece of clothing.
a subway stop is a good place to catch a subway train.
a person doesn't want to forget.
terminator is a character in a movie.
A hive is a home for bees.
smoking is an expensive habit.
AI is artificial intelligence.
A deli is a good place to find sandwiches in.
A quasar is a distant energy source in space which gives off large amounts of radiation.
a line is an imaginary connection between two points.
Cash is another name for paper money.
A UFO is an unidentified flying object.
a dog is a friendly being.
HTTP is a set of standards controlled by the World Wide Web Consortium.
Metamucil is a good source of dietary fiber.
Sunday is a day of rest in Christian culture.
A kid is a young goat.
falun is a town in Sweden.
A dowel is a wand made of wood.
Ebola is a hemorrhagic fever virus.
Commander Data is an android.
One of the things you do when you attend class is acquire text books.
Steak is a specific form of meat consisting of the fairly large thick slab of beef.
Compulsive hoarding is a symptom of several illnesses.
a cruise is a long trip on a boat over water.
fishing is a sporting event.
Hawaii is a small island chain in the pacific ocean.
A kelpie is a Scottish water faerie that lures people to their death.
a bank card is a card issued by a bank.
Seattle is a city in Washington.
An album is a container for family photos.
A match is a utensil used to create fire.
A paper clip is a temporary way to attach papers together.
coffee is a popular beverage.
Paper is an example of a solid.
An athame is a ritual knife with a double-edged handle.
Ericsson is a Swedish company.
One type of physical representation of money is a coin.
Rice is a staple food in the Orient.
Finland is a neutral, Nordic democracy.
a scene is a small logical unit of a movie.
a tank is a powerful machine for making war.
a kosher deli is a specialist food shop that caters to religious tastes in food.
A subway token is a small metal disc.
Alphabetical order is a good way to organize names and addresses.
Hair is a natural protection from the hazards of nature.
Ferrishyn is a name for fairies in Celtic lore.
A gym is an enclosed area for getting fit.
saving for the future is a good idea.
Switzerland is a good place to go skiing.
Queen Elizabeth is an important symbol to her people.
Physical exercise is a popular way to stay in shape.
wood is a common building material.
middle c is a note on a piano.
Robert Haig Coxon Jr is a New Age musician.
AIDS is an acquired immune deficiency syndrome. 
libraries lend out books.
cappuccino is a kind of coffee that is served with cream and cinnamon.
Burgundy is a French red wine.
A year with 366 days is a leap year.
Security is a balance between protection and convenience.
A possible reason for pain is a heart attack.
You are likely to find a beer mug in a bar.
A bus is a mode of public transportation.
Group study is a great way to learn.
garbage is a synonym for trash.
a cemetery is a place to go to visit ancestors.
A first violin player is a more advanced musician than a second violin player.
Ruby is a pure object-oriented programming language.
One of the things you do when you take finals is answer questions.
Parity is a method of detecting errors in data transmission.
cashmere is a very expensive wool.
hard hat is a protective head gear.
a tail is a fifth appendage on some animals to help with balance.
Pub is another word for bar.
Rembrandt is a famous painter.
a cash coin is a partial equivalent to a paper dollar.
smoking a pipe is another way to use tobacco.
Cash is a common term for the local currency in paper form.
southern California is a desert.
You are likely to find a horse in a parade.
Writing is a way to store information.
international trade in coffee beans is an important element in world economics.
Bob Dylan is a modern day troubadour. 
A try is a single sustained effort.
Laying sod is a fast way to get a new lawn.
A song is a poem set to music.
a harbor is a parking place for ships and boats.
a mall is a place for shopping.
sushi is a Japanese name.
corn is an important food crop.
A sandwich is a filling between two slices of bread.
a statue is a three dimensional sculpture.
A rod is an old unit for measuring distance.
Herlong is a city in California.
Horseback riding is a good way to enjoy nature.
a rubber chicken is a tool used by comedians.
hockey is a game on ice.
Something that might happen as a consequence of seeing people play a game is you want to play.
Shooting is a far safer sport than football.
You can use a text to study.
marriage is a partnership between two individuals.
A circle is a orange-shaped figure.
A right angle is a 90 degree angle.
A gazelle is a type of animal..
Sentencing criminals is a judge's duty.
Indexing is a powerful feature.
A drawstring bag is a good laundry bag.
Wordwrap is automatic shifting of a word to the next line.
jack is a boy's name.
IRC is a famous chat channel.
Chryse is a bright region on Mars.
Snow is a frozen crystal made of water.
NBA is an abbreviation for the National Basketball Association.
Backgammon is a popular parlor game.
Seafood is a specific group of food that comes from the sea.
a wheelbarrow is a simple tool.
Management of vertebrate pests is a complex and involved endeavor. 
A phoenix is a mythical Egyptian bird.
A shillelagh is an Irish club.
A plunger is a tool to be used carefully.
Popularity is a state influenced by opinion.
A hall is a passage way.
wrestling is a type of fighting.
housing is a human right.
Solving a conflict is a positive action.
Master Card is a credit card.
A myrtle is a kind of tree native to the Mediterranean and western Asia.
a washcloth is a tool for cleaning things.
A dragon is a mythological creature.
A chalice is a ritual goblet.
A globe is a ball that represents the earth.
A metaphor is an example of figurative language.
a tapestry is a colorful wall-hanging.
A son is a parent's male child.
Planet Earth's atmosphere is air.
a kitchen is a place to prepare meals.
lead is an additive in paint.
A ghurible is a shallow, three-legged dish.
music is a way to let out emotions.
A weapon is a tool used to hurt a living creature.
A dog wants to sleep.
cream cheese is a very popular companion to bagels.
Something that might happen while taking a bath is relaxation.
a cemetery is a place to go to meditate.
A quarterback is a player on a NFL football team.
Football is a popular spectator sport in the United States.
going on a cruise is a good way to relax.
Pepsi is a brand name for a soda.
You would love because you want to be loved.
nature is a term used to explain an environment and its activity.
having lunch requires eating.
a cemetery is a place to go to remember.
You are likely to find a cake in a party.
Malibu is another name for a longboard.
Something that might happen when you listen is you hear things.
Friendship is a love of intimate sharing between mature equals.
The first thing you do when you look through a telescope is focus.
water is a natural resource.
Something you find at a party is drinks.
Backgammon is a portable game.
Something you might do while going into a coma is being unconscious.
time is a precious thing that runs out too quickly. 
Something you find on the surface of the earth is rock.
a religious tract is a way to spread religious memes.
People are often greedy.
white is a symbol of purity in some cultures.
Woodwind instruments are made of wood.
You are likely to find a spiral binding in a notebook.
Computer disks store information on them.
Something you might do while going to a party is having fun.
corn is a cereal grain from the America's. 
a train station is for Traveling.
Walking on the beach is a nice thing to do with your loved ones.
nylon is used for rope.
homelessness is a social and economic problem.
a train ticket is used for travel by train.
A nice fishing hole is a nice retreat on a nice summer day.
If you want to light a fire then you should use matches.
One cause of head injuries is a car accident.
hiking is for exercise.
Throwing darts is a favorite activity of people in English pubs.
If you want to get some money from someone then you should work.
a picture frame is a comment to the picture.
Something you find on the rug is a cat.
Swiss army knife is a useful tool.
Something you find in a boat is a rudder.
An antiseptic is an agent with the power to kill bacteria.
some people kill other people.
A flag is a visual marker of political identity.
Something you find at a fork in the road is a decision.
Popcorn is a special kind of corn.
Something you find in a jar is mustard.
FAX is a shortened form of facsimile.
You are likely to find a lizard in a warm climate.
a Zamboni is a machine used to repair the surface of ice.
A speaker can field a question.
soccer is a popular sport.
Something you find at the post office is a scale.
Aluminum is a light metal.
Something that might happen when you bungee jump from a high bridge is you fall.
mousse is a hair shaping gel.
You are likely to find an orchestra pit in the theater. 
ER is a TV show about doctors.
Something you find in the purse is a comb.
Schooling is an education at a school.
Something you find at a show is an actor.
A tornado is a powerful force of nature.
lighting a match requires something to strike the match on.
Makeup is a form of decorating the body in many cultures.
You are likely to find an instrument in a music store.
a bathroom is a room for bathing and toileting.
Ice is the solid form of water.
a hospital is a place to care for sick people.
You can use a toothbrush head to brush teeth.
A party is a social gathering for the purpose of pleasure.
Something that might happen when you take an examination is writing.
liquid is a more common word than fluid.
a crime would make you want to serve justice.
COBOL is a programming language.
Ice is hard.
8-ball is a game of billiards.
people need oxygen to breathe.
Fall is a season of apples and nuts.
The last thing you do when you get wet is dry yourself.
A stream is a narrow body of flowing water.
water can extinguish a fire.
a wall is a vertical plane.
A Mac is a computer manufactured by Apple.
a pen is a communication device used by the hands.
Poison ivy is a plant.
basketball is a sport people play for enjoyment and exercise. 
A clock is a machine.
a sphere is a three-dimensional circle.
A hotel has a lobby.
a highlighter is a tool for learning and remembering.
a person doesn't want hunger.
Proposing to a women is an important decision.
a person wants comfortable shoes.
fruit is an important food group.
If you want to grow vegetables then you should plant them.
Developer is another word for programmer.
If you want to eat breakfast then you should make a breakfast.
a buffet is a self-service way to serve food.
The effect of seeing a band is excitement.
president Clinton is a poor leader.
You are likely to find the sun in the solar system.
work is a cooperative activity.
If you want to bake a cake then you should follow a recipe.
One of the things you do when you fight is attract spectators.
You are likely to find a tennis game in a tennis court.
The effect of buying a beer is drinking a beer.
A vessel is a craft used to travel on water.
Something you find at the library is the card catalog. 
a passport is a ticket to the world.
The effect of playing basketball is having fun.
A dialog box is a box that requests more information from you.
The effect of cleaning your clothes is clean clothes.
shrubbery is another word for bushes.
Nothing lasts forever.
A bidet is a French toilet for women.
You are likely to find resin in a tree.
Film is another word for movie.
people are weird.
A moon is a natural satellite of a planet.
a state highway is for driving.
outer space is all around us.
a hardware shop is for buying screws and nails.
oxygen is a necessity for life which originates on the planet earth.
running a marathon is for challenging yourself.
Starvation is a horrible thing.
Something you find at sea is seagulls.
peptidoglycan is a carbohydrate in the cell walls of eubacteria.
Something you find on the ground is a pebble.
a husband can kiss his wife.
cheesecake is a type of cake made from cream cheese.
Sometimes entertaining someone causes laughter.
Soul is a human's true identity.
You are likely to find a creature in a forest.
Telnet is a TCP-based service that supports remote logons.
Something you find in a classroom is a globe.
Paris is a source of light pollution in Europe.
You can use a toy to have fun.
Preventing disease is a better option than cure.
diminishing your own hunger requires food.
a scale is a device for determining the weight of an object.
A portrait of a man.
a photon is a little piece of light.
Sometimes winning a baseball game causes celebration.
a kitten is a fragile animal.
Something you might do while setting a cup on the table is drop it.
A contract is a legal agreement.
You can use a card case to store cards.
a map is a flat plane representation of the earth's features.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking finals is finishing class.
Scrabble is a popular board game in the United States.
a snare drum is for making music.
Holly is a type of tree that is commonly found in yards.
watching television is for education.
A tent is a portable house.
a person wants meaning in life.
A mall is a building that contains many different stores.
a cupboard is for storing dishes.
A fillet mignon is a high quality of loin cut of beef steak.
listening to the radio is for hearing music.
Our sun is an example of a yellow dwarf star.
Something you might do while meeting a friend is have coffee.
Gundam Wing is a very good Giant Robot series.
The first thing you do when you go to a movie is buy the tickets.
a snowmobile is a fast vehicle for traveling through the snow.
If you want to take in a film then you should go to the theater. 
Somerville is a city in Massachusetts.
You can use a mailbox to send letters.
a wiener dog is a popular pet.
A sofa is a comfortable place to sit.
Something that might happen when you eat dinner is you choke.
The Wall Street Journal is a popular financial newspaper. 
Somewhere a body can be is in a coffin.
Something you might do while selling your new book is sign the book.
Something that might happen as a consequence of kissing someone is love.
You are likely to find a door in the wall.
Sometimes committing to memory causes you to have impressive results.
One of the things you do when you die is stop living.
killing someone is bad.
A trash container is a temporary storage unit for waste.
Sometimes going on strike causes resentment.
Something you find in the forest is squirrels.
Sometimes going to get a haircut causes fear.
Clomipramine is a more potent serotonin reuptake inhibitor than the other tricyclic antidepressants.
bringing home some fish requires oil.
Dogs can live in dog houses.
scoring a homer requires good aim.
Halloween is a holiday in October.
Something that might happen when you pass a class is you move on.
You are likely to find a snake in a tree.
You would talk because you want to tell someone to go home.
a bookshelf is a piece of furniture used to store books.
You would awake because you want to go to the bathroom.
You can use a stairwell to walk down.
You are likely to find a sink in the bathroom.
Dragging is a common way to move items in a window.
Something that might happen as a consequence of attending a lecture is you fall asleep.
A bass is a type of fish.
Something that might happen when you do a crossword puzzle is you write a word.
fall is autumn.
You would eat lunch because you want to have fun.
People use glasses to improve their vision.
Sometimes buying a beer causes drunkenness. 
Something that might happen when you grow vegetables is you feel pride.
You are likely to find a desk drawer in a desk.
You can use a mouthwash to freshen your breath.
A telephone is a hardware device used to contact another person by the entry of a number sequence unique to that person's answering telephone.
an alto is used for singing.
The effect of going to a film is entertainment.
You are likely to find a water heater in the basement.
Microsoft Multiplan is a tool for developing worksheets.
A wrist is part of an arm.
Something you find at the theater is popcorn.
A student can study a book.
A prince is a young male member of a royal family.
The last thing you do when you run after the ball is pick up the ball.
Saddles are made of leather.
Inbound communication is an attempt by an external computer to open a connection to your computer.
Something you find at a street corner is a lamp post.
You are likely to find a saxophone in a jazz band.
Something that might happen when you chew your food is salivating.
A computer is used for word processing.
Somewhere a ship can be is on the ocean.
A knife is used for cutting food.
A field is a place in a form for an individual piece of information.
leaves can fall from a tree.
a kosher restaurant is for eating at.
fur is for making coats.
a cymbal is a musical instrument.
You would create art because it inspires you.
doctors care for their patients.
Having a daughter is a wonderful experience.
You are likely to find a chess knight in a chess set.
an object in motion tends to remain in motion.
wrestling requires strength.
Phoenicis Lacus is a dark region on Mars.
salmon is food.
Love is a strong emotion.
Something you find in a forest is a fern.
skiing is a form of the verb to ski.
A dime is worth ten cents.
A pitcher is part of a baseball team.
a pepper is a vegetable as well as food.
a cannonball is used for sinking ships.
watering a plant requires water and a plant.
Something that might happen as a consequence of doing a crossword puzzle is learn a new word.
The world is a big place.
Something that might happen when you get warm is sweating.
You are likely to find a stamp pad in a desk.
mops are used to clean the floor.
You are likely to find a cook in a kitchen.
You would destroy your enemy because you hate him.
playing a game is for enjoyment.
a refrigerator is for keeping food from spoiling.
Something you find at a museum is sculptures.
Seat belts can save lives.
Sometimes awaking causes eyes to open.
a jihad is a holy war.
You are likely to find a fruit in a market.
a bank can store your money.
You are likely to find a plane ticket in a pocket.
You can use a bass to eat.
a seafood restaurant is used for eating seafood.
You are likely to find a soldier in a battlefield.
You would ride a horse because it is fun.
You are likely to find a turnstile in a subway.
Something that might happen when you commit to memory is you memorize it.
there are 12 months in a year.
a self adhesive label is used for labeling.
Most children become adults.
Somewhere a fish can be is in a pond.
If you want to play the violin then you should have a bow.
Something you find in the countryside is forests.
a divider is for dividing things.
Bagels are boiled and then baked.
wood is used for building.
Something you find in a suitcase is underwear.
women can have babies.
You can use cabinets to store objects.
If you want to have a party then you should invite guests.
Hawaii is an island.
Something you find under a bridge is a hobo.
Something that might happen while using a VCR is watching a movie.
If you want to remember a phone number then you should write it down.
Something that might happen while fighting inflation is lowering prices.
a brass instrument is for playing music.
a T-shirt is for wearing.
A person can need food.
You are likely to find a bee in the flower garden.
Something you find at a fraternity house is people.
sky can appear blue.
socks go on people's feet.
You would kill because you want to defend yourself.
fire can be useful.
a picnic basket is used to carry food to a picnic.
eating breakfast is for starting the day right.
You are likely to find a mat in a bathroom.
If you want to play a guitar then you should take lessons.
Something that might happen when you change society is revolution.
You are likely to find a sheet of paper in a printer.
jewelry is for decoration.
You are likely to find a faucet in the bathroom.
plants convert sunlight to energy.
a hairdressing salon is used for getting a haircut.
a post office can forward mail.
You are likely to find a grape in a field.
Something you find on a shelf is a speaker.
You are likely to find a shark in the Atlantic Ocean.
You are likely to find a shampoo and conditioner in a bathroom.
teachers can question students.
You are likely to find a weasel in a hole.
Austin is the capital of Texas.
One of the things you do when you chat with friends is talk all at once.
An electric fan.
You are likely to find a check in counter in the airport.
a hardware shop is for buying hardware.
Something you find at the park is lovers.
paying by check requires identification.
deodorant is a substance.
a carpenter can build a house.
One of the things you do when you have a conversation is make eye contact.
You would set a cup on the table because you want to free your hands.
You would calculate things quickly because you're in a hurry.
Something you might do while fighting war is killing someone.
A village is a small town.
If you want to attend a lecture then you should go to the lecture hall.
Something you might do while resting is fall asleep.
You are likely to find a band aid in a first-aid kit.
Something you find in the newspaper is opinion.
You are likely to find a fox in a foxhole.
One of the things you do when you have an asthma attack is have difficulty breathing.
a baby can wear a diaper.
The effect of lighting a match is flame.
Something you need to do before you read a book is buy a book.
Children go to school to learn.
Something you find at a hotel is hotel rooms.
You are likely to find a field in the country.
If you want to add up a column of numbers then you should use a calculator.
You would bring home some fish because you want to cook fish.
Something you might do while playing sports is have fun.
Something you find at the post office is packages.
If you want to get warm then you should put on clothing.
Something you find on the rug is a sleeping dog.
A person can drink water.
Something you need to do before you hear music is listen.
Something you find at the doctor is a tongue depressor.
people don't like to be bored.
a person wants everything.
Plants need sunshine to grow.
You are likely to find a boarding pass in airports.
Some people wear jewelry.
You are likely to find a story in a newspaper.
Some people write with a pen.
pens contain ink.
You are likely to find a coach airline seat in a airplane.
If you want to wash clothes then you should buy washing powder.
You are likely to find a chess piece in a chess set.
many people work in office buildings.
dancing the samba is for having fun.
patina is also a girl's name.
The effect of going to an opera is boredom.
An activity iron can do is rust.
Something that might happen while laughing at a joke is snorting.
Cricket is a game played with darts.
Something that might happen as a consequence of living a life is dying.
One of the things you do when you bathe is take off your clothes.
Something you find in a street is a manhole.
Something you find on the roof is Santa Claus. 
a finger can push a button.
going for a jog is for exercise.
Something you find at the theater is movies.
a dining table is for playing games on.
Sometimes adding up a column of numbers causes a sum.
Sometimes exercising causes tiredness.
You are likely to find a heifer in a dairy farm.
a person wants new experiences.
yo-yos are fun to play with.
water does not burn.
Something that might happen when you give assistance is help someone.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking finals is success.
You are likely to find a fast food restaurant in the city.
doctors use stethoscopes.
Something you find at a funeral is mourning people.
Dirt would make you want to have a bath.
If you want to take the stand then you should commit a crime.
a bridge and a sunset.
a person wants a good meal.
Hunger would make you want to open a bag of chips.
You can use a xylophone to play music.
Something that might happen while studying for a subject is reading.
a person wants to have enough money.
a mandolin is for playing music.
A diorama is a small scene of a time and place.
You can use the Earth to live on.
You are likely to find a marmoset in a tree.
You are likely to find a duplex in a city.
A blimp is a balloon-like airship that floats in the sky.
You would watch TV because you were bored.
a farm is an agricultural unit of production.
cups are used to hold water.
Compulsive hoarding is a symptom of OCD.
You are likely to find a crab in a shell.
genetic alteration of food is a danger to variation.
entertaining people is for fun.
human flesh is a pinkish orangish color.
taking a shower requires water.
a pocket computer is a computer that fits in the pocket.
Caffeine is a stimulant.
Elvis Costello is a famous singer.
You are likely to find a billboard in the city.
observing nature is a natural hobby.
Something you might do while having a physical exam is sneeze.
One of the things you do when you take the stand is affirm your position.
Something that might happen when you go to bed is you close your eyes.
Sushi is a Japanese type of food.
a voice is for talking.
A motorway is an autobahn.
talking to someone requires a mouth.
Something that might happen as a consequence of eating a cookie is getting fat.
buying presents is for Christmas. 
Electricity is a useful way to transport energy.
a pail is for carrying water.
Jenny Holtzner is an artist.
a hall is a passageway. 
birthday cakes usually have candles.
a film is a record of motion and sound.
a ranch house is used for living in.
A noise is an unwelcome sound.
You are likely to find a piece of change in a pocket.
Sailor Moon is a TV Show.
a person wants stuff.
Soy protein is a substitute for meat protein.
Something that might happen as a consequence of eating breakfast is gain energy.
Bloomington is a city in Minnesota.
You are likely to find a back garden in the back yard.
an industry is a general area of business interest.
Something you need to do before you program a computer is turn the computer on.
Cholesterol is a harmful type of fat.
Somewhere a groom can be is in a wedding.
a pocket watch is a nice timepiece.
a mayor is for running a town.
groucho Marx is an American cultural icon.
eating in a fast food restaurant requires ordering.
A tourniquet is an old-fashion way of controlling blood flow.
TV is an acronym for television.
You would tie your shoelace because you want to avoid tripping on it.
Refining is a process of removing unwanted material.
You are likely to find a movie house in a city.
One of the things you do when you work the box office is answer the phone.
a person wants shelter.
digital voice recognition is an efficient way of entering data into a computer system.
a display cabinet is used for displaying.
Paper is a fibrous cellulose product.
a drug is a chemical.
dancing is a pleasing pastime.
smoke rises.
Open Mind is an interesting computer program.
Something that might happen while riding a horse is you go fast.
Janus is an ancient Italian king.
People work in office buildings.
A spell is a magical ritual used to produce certain results in the physical world.
If you want to wash your hands then you should go to a sink.
a globe is an artificial representation of the world.
a person wants a loving family.
Aerobics is a type of physical exercise for the body.
Retrievers are a type of dog.
an entranceway is a location.
If you want to ride a bike then you should wear a helmet.
An hourglass is a primitive time-measuring tool.
Something that might happen when you fiddle is you dance.
lizard is another way of saying reptile.
People live in an apartment.
Making a budget is a good management tool.
a person doesn't want to be mocked.
horseback riding is a very expensive hobby.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in the Pacific ocean.
television is a means of communication.
being in charge of a project requires leadership.
skiing is a good form of exercise. 
A passport is a form of identification.
a watch is a mechanical means of measuring time.
You can use a check book to write checks.
muscatel is a cheap wine.
Ice is used to cool drinks.
a pocket knife is a very handy tool to carry.
being right would make you want to agree with someone.
a mouth is for kissing.
a basket with a handle is used for carrying things.
Soy sauce is a liquid.
You would repair an umbrella because you want to use it.
Squid is a popular Asian dish.
sewing is for repair of clothing.
Susie Hendrix is a great saxophone player.
Something that might happen as a consequence of flirting is you get in trouble.
Concord is a supersonic passenger jet.
An activity children can do is play.
teaching is an important cultural activity.
The effect of changing society is sometimes bad.
Body language is a form of communication.
a prosthesis is for replacement of a missing limb.
running is a form of exercise. 
The effect of eating vegetables is good.
PBS is a television station people watch.
You would take a bath because you want to relax.
bicycling is a great joy of youth.
meeting a friend requires you to have fun.
cross country skiing is an Olympic event.
water is used to extinguish fire.
China is a country and a form of vessel that holds food and beverages.
The effect of stabbing to death is death.
This ship is a real space ship.
You would empty your bladder because it is full.
A mine is a series of tunnels underground.
a motel is used for sleeping.
A city is a large town.
a factory is an industrial unit of production.
Something you might do while enjoying the day is relax.
One of the things you do when you create something to help other people is address the needs of other people.
A decagon is a ten-sided figure.
Gambling is a favorite past time of many people.
Something that might happen while performing is singing.
happiness is a momentary state of balance.
Calm water is an excellent reflector.
Artificial Intelligence is a complex endeavor.
You can use a museum ticket to get into a museum.
Nurture is a way to teach others to care for themselves.
A concert is a show produced by an orchestra.
hockey is a form of entertainment and sport.
You are likely to find an intersection in a road.
A spell of rain is an expression that has nothing to do with spelling.
a cemetery is a place to go to think.
Entertainment in an automobile is a 20th century necessity.
an auditorium is used for performances.
Wind is a powerful form of energy.
a rubber chicken is a gag toy.
a merchant sells goods.
A president is a top leader of some group.
a hotel is a place to stop by.
hot air ballooning is an expensive recreation.
a squash court is used for playing the game of squash.
You are likely to find a piece of paper in a notebook.
Wood is a versatile construction material.
a club is used for beating.
cruise ship.
Calgary carpet juniper is a plant.
trophy is a symbol of a reward that is won for a reward in a contest.
The effect of hurting someone else is pain.
bald eagle is an endangered species.
A furnace can heat a house.
An arena is an area for sports.
You are likely to find a road in a town.
a mouthwash is a liquid used to freshen breath and kill germs in the mouth.
climbing is for getting on top.
a sphere is a three-dimensional geometric shape.
Something you find on television is a sitcom.
a general ledger is a database of account information.
greeting a person is a courtesy and necessary to be polite.
lighting a match is for starting fire.
A liturgy is a orderly form of worship.
Something you find at a movie is a movie screen.
Puberty is a challenging time for teenagers.
Something you find at a carnival is a merry go round.
a graveyard is a weird, spooky place with dead people.
Something you might do while working is think.
a passport is a legal document.
Something you find at church is prayer.
Monopoly is a classic board game. 
Sometimes going to a performance causes laughter.
Daniel Chait is a genius.
Something that might happen when you do housework is sweeping the floor.
A doughnut is a torus-shaped object.
Something that might happen while eating ice cream is it melts on you.
hockey is a very violent sport on ice.
The effect of waiting in line is getting impatient.
Tex-Mex is a genre of food related to the Mexican genre of food.
A bicycle has two tires. .
cheddar is a city in England.
Something that might happen while being involved in an accident is getting hurt.
new York city is a large city.
Something you might do while sleeping is mumble.
mahi mahi is a fish.
Sailboat on the water.
ermine is a royal fur.
You would eat a cookie because you want to taste it.
A serving cart is a tray on wheels.
A mother loves her children.
wind power is a clean energy source.
Something you might do while going to a play is laugh.
Secret of Mana is a good game.
love is a beautiful thing.
a stringed instrument is a musical instrument.
The effect of earning a living is paying bills.
A car is an item that needs to be replaced occasionally.
spitting is a dirty habit.
A Chairman of The Board is a person in charge.
Something that might happen while having a checkup is you get pills.
A good present for a child is a good quality pad of drawing paper and some colored pencils.
a plastic duck is a nice toy in a bath.
Sometimes riding a bicycle causes cramping.
nightmare on elm street is a popular horror movie.
You are likely to find a ficus in an arboretum.
A wardrobe is a collection of clothes that people wear.
You are likely to find a weasel in a hen house.
a star is a very large ball of luminous gas.
a ballpoint pen is for writing on paper.
house is a different word for home.
You can use a billboard to advertise a product.
a book is an excellent source of information.
densiformis gem yew is a plant.
One of the things you do when you wait for someone is tap your foot.
a Japanese restaurant is used for eating sushi.
You are likely to find an alto in a choir.
Something you find at a library is dictionaries.
You are likely to find a horse in a horse race.
Sometimes memorizing causes a learning.
a kitchen utensil is used to prepare food.
a hairdresser chair is for having your hair cut.
cleaning is for getting rid of stink.
Something that might happen when you examine a thing is learning.
Something you might do while becoming a scuba diver is learn to swim.
Kids at play.
a pizzeria is used for buying pizza.
You are likely to find a vegetable garden in a back yard.
If you want to skate then you should put your skates on.
Something you might do while playing chess is move a pawn.
a wash cloth is used for baths.
a swimming pool is used for fun.
a reception area is for meeting people.
Murder is bad.
snow falls in the winter.
boss can page employee.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in a zoo.
Sometimes getting exercise causes better health.
Something you find on a table is a sign-up sheet.
Food on a grill.
answering questions is for educating.
a birds nest.
a person doesn't want bills.
You would stop your bicycle because the light is red.
Something you find at a hospital is patients.
Something you need to do before you sign a contract is read the fine print.
thanking someone requires communicating.
Something you find at the theater is popcorn.
You would cogitate because you are thinking.
You are likely to find an egg in the grocery store.
Illinois is a state.
Plants need sunlight.
Water flows downhill.
a bricklayer can lay bricks.
a dog wants a bone.
Something that might happen while having a haircut is sitting down.
Something you find at an art show is an art critic.
You would commit to memory because you want to remember.
One of the things you do when you do the housework is clean the toilets.
Something you find at the theater is a curtain.
Something you find in a street is a streetlight.
Something that might happen as a consequence of watering a plant is growth.
You would propose to a woman because you want to marry her.
a person does not want to be cut.
The effect of going to the store is spending money.
ink is usually black.
Something you find behind the refrigerator is an electric outlet.
growing vegetables requires watering them.
Something you need to do before you eat dinner is wash your hands.
Something that might happen while cooking dinner is boiling water.
If you want to go to get a haircut then you should have money.
a banjo has strings.
Something you find on a table is a candle.
Patriotism would make you want to join the army.
You are likely to find a text in a library.
kittens are small.
A photo is a kind of picture.
Something you find at the doctor is an examination table.
a spring is a natural occurrence of water.
If you want to live then you should eat.
lizards are a type of reptile.
The first thing you do when you cross the street is look both ways.
art is a way of expressing yourself.
Something you find at an airport is a terminal.
a national interstate highway is for driving on.
driving a car is for having fun.
buying items on credit is a bad idea.
Sometimes exercise causes fitness.
Something you find in a jar is mayonnaise.
a door can be made of wood.
bringing in a verdict requires a judge.
You are likely to find a large food store in the city.
A scale is used to weigh objects.
humans breathe air.
Something you might do while listening to music is sing along.
Some people enjoy riding horses.
Something you find at the front door is the mailman.
typewriters are out of date.
an iron is used for ironing your clothes.
One of the things you do when you go to the store is buy things.
You are likely to find a shower door in the bathroom.
You are likely to find a hat in the closet.
An activity two people can do is make love.
Something that might happen while standing in a queue is you become impatient.
If you want to have a shower then you should turn on the water.
An ostrich can't fly.
Something that might happen while chewing your food is biting your tongue.
sleeping is for relaxing.
Ivy is a vine.
washing your clothes requires soap and water.
One of the things you do when you read a newspaper is turn pages.
kissing requires lips.
going on the stage is for doing a performance.
Something you find in a boat is water.
Something you find under the closet is a floor.
You are likely to find an apartment house in any city.
Something you find in a suitcase is folded clothes.
Something you find in the mail is junk mail.
Cold weather would make you want to start a fire.
You are likely to find a tape dispenser in a desk.
You are likely to find a bus seat in a bus.
You are likely to find woolen fabric in a sweater.
a credit card wallet is for holding credit cards.
You are likely to find a monkey in a rain forest.
Something you find in a jar is olives.
Something that might happen while gaining more land is paying money.
reality would make you want to pretend.
You are likely to find an aisle in a church.
a person doesn't want an amputation.
Something you might do while getting some money from someone is lie.
Terror is a strong emotion.
A tablecloth can cover the table.
Something that might happen as a consequence of washing clothes is you have fun.
If you want to chew your food then you should put it in your mouth.
You can use lips to speak.
a mother can feed a child.
If you want to go fishing then you should buy bait.
One of the things you do when you get wet is shiver.
a wing is used for flapping.
the horse is a smart animal.
One of the things you do when you watch TV is sitting.
reading is for learning.
a container cup is used for drinking.
An activity a mother can do is teach a child.
Something that might happen as a consequence of attending a classical concert is you feel good.
denim is for jeans.
If you want to attend school then you should enroll.
You are likely to find a sword in a museum.
The effect of recording something is sometimes permanent.
The effect of playing lacrosse is someone wins.
A person can strike a match.
looking through a telescope requires eyes.
Something that might happen while scoring a home run is the ball is hit.
Something that might happen as a consequence of waiting in line is it becomes your turn.
Sometimes running a marathon causes injury.
You are likely to find a check book holder in my purse.
Something you might do while mailing a letter is go to the post office.
The effect of preparing for a vote is winning.
pride would make you want to paint a house.
a person wants popularity.
Something that might happen while cooking is you burn something.
steel is an alloy.
a match can light a cigarette.
Chinese is a human language.
your boss would make you want to take care of proposals.
a battle is part of a war.
seeing a movie requires patience.
Something you find on the table is a centerpiece.
a person wants to be treated with respect.
One of the things you do when you enjoy the day is have fun.
friends would make you want to socialize.
One of the things you do when you shop is compare prices.
You are likely to find water in a toilet.
The effect of driving a car is getting to the store.
Sometimes answering questions causes panic.
Something that might happen as a consequence of studying for a subject is you pass your test.
Something that might happen when you walk the dog is you get some fresh air.
You are likely to find a pocket notebook in a pocket.
You can use a ticket slot to collect the tickets.
The sun can dry your laundry.
Something that might happen while getting exercise is an increase in your heart rate.
socks are worn on feet.
buying a house would make you want to get a contract.
You are likely to find tracks in a train station.
You are likely to find boxes in an attic.
Some roses are red.
Most people travel by car.
A knife is a type of tool.
You are likely to find a dining room table in a dining room.
You are likely to find an apple tree in Washington.
telling a story is for Entertainment.
Some plants grow from a bulb.
Sometimes selling your new book causes you to make money.
You are likely to find lips in faces.
Something that might happen as a consequence of waiting on tables is sore feet.
Steak and bread are both food.
You would have a haircut because you want shorter hair.
Plants are good for the environment.
You are likely to find hand luggage in the airport.
Something that might happen as a consequence of traveling is motion sickness.
You are likely to find a hair in the drain.
mailing a letter is for communicating with someone.
a hairpin is for keeping hair in place.
You are likely to find a self adhesive label in office supply stores.
Authors can write novels.
Something that might happen while tying your shoelace is breaking the shoelace.
a sailboat floats on the water.
You are likely to find a ferret in a field.
an animal wants to eat.
You are likely to find a musical instrument in a band.
Something you find at the dentist is an old magazine.
If you want to bathe then you should get naked.
If you want to talk with someone far away then you should phone them.
Something you find at a rest area is washroom.
You are likely to find a shower switch in a bathroom.
beer can contain alcohol.
You are likely to find wood in forest.
You are likely to find a kitten in tree.
Spoons are used to eat ice cream.
If you want to stay in bed then you should turn off the alarm clock.
Food is a substance that people enjoy eating.
a revolving door is used for entering a building.
a princess can kiss a frog.
You can use a label maker to make labels.
a stereo plays music.
a storage furniture is used for storing things.
A mattress is part of a bed.
Something you find at a toy store is Legos.
You would go for a walk because you want to exercise.
You are likely to find a comforter in a bedroom.
Dogs have a tail.
Something you might do while setting a cup on the table is spill it.
a boat is used for travel.
a castle is for living in.
A woodwind is a musical instrument.
You are likely to find a marmoset in South America.
Something you find at a train station is ticket booth.
Something you need to do before you find information is go to a library.
a person doesn't want to lie.
Jupiter is the biggest planet in our solar system.
tying your shoelace is for preventing you from tripping.
Dogs like to gnaw on bones.
Space is the final frontier.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing tennis is tennis elbow.
a person doesn't want to die in pain.
You are likely to find a sofa in a house.
Plants need sunlight to live.
a mechanic can be servicing your car.
Animals have bodies.
If you want to grow vegetables then you should have a garden.
Desire to learn more things would make you want to attend school.
You can use an electric fan to cool down a room.
Something you find at the movies is a screen.
A bean is a vegetable.
Planets are large.
a footstool is used for standing on.
If you want to buy food then you should go to a store.
You are likely to find a cow in a slaughter house.
Something you might do while getting wet is swim.
You are likely to find a rosebush in flower garden.
You are likely to find a condominium in the city.
People can make mistakes.
You are likely to find a shark in Sea World.
Sometimes telling a story causes laughter.
Something that might happen as a consequence of driving is changing your location.
People can be silly.
An electric toothbrush can be used to clean teeth.
a cake is used for eating.
a passenger rides in a car.
A brownstone is a house made of a particular kind of brown stone.
Something you find at a bar is alcoholics.
Kids like to play with them.
Something that might happen when you awake is you stretch.
Something you find in the street is potholes.
Something you need to do before you talk to someone is open your mouth.
Clamps are used for holding things.
You are likely to find an apple tree in a back yard.
A dog can guide a blind person.
leaves fall from trees in the fall.
Children and puppies are cute.
Something you find at confession is a priest.
One of the things you do when you wait your turn is stand in a line.
gravity pulls things towards the earth.
You can use an oboe to make music.
Something you might do while waiting is read.
Some people own their house.
stopwatches are used to measure time.
a Japanese restaurant is for eating Japanese food.
You are likely to find a hot tap in a kitchen.
If you want to give a clue then you should have a clue.
sailboats use wind to move in the water.
You are likely to find a rook in the game of chess.
You are likely to find a small dog in a pound.
a pan is used for frying.
If you want to earn a living then you should work hard.
Something you find in a plane is stewardesses.
You are likely to find a tenor in a choir.
a person doesn't want to be restricted.
A half-full glass of water.
Good is the opposite of Evil.
an author can write a poem.
flowers in bloom.
You are likely to find an army in a war.
Children like to play games.
staying fit requires exercise.
Something you might do while having a party is drink beer.
Something that might happen when you attend a lecture is listening.
a key is used to unlock a lock.
One of the things you do when you walk is move your legs.
You are likely to find a flight bag in the airport.
fruits are juicy.
You can use a CD to listen to music.
caring would make you want to determine the truth.
Something you might do while flirting is smile.
Some people believe in luck.
People celebrate birthdays.
Something you find in a park is plants.
a lion can hunt zebras.
pigs do not fly.
coffee has caffeine in it.
Iraq is a country.
Erasers remove pencil marks from paper.
You are likely to find a marmot in a cage.
Something you find at the corner of two streets is a stop sign.
Vanity is admiration of oneself.
The first thing you do when you act in a play is learn your lines.
dogs are very good companions.
Something you find in a trunk is clothing.
Something you find in outer space is black holes.
You would drink some water because you are thirsty.
books are expensive.
Something you find at a library is a card index.
red roses are a symbol of love.
a person doesn't want to be run down.
Something you find in the street is a fire hydrant.
a clock measures time.
If you want to use a television then you should turn it on.
health is an important foundation for success in employment.
some people put cream cheese on bagels.
keys unlock locks.
glass is very fragile.
a heart is a pump for blood.
Cats are alive.
Glass can be recycled.
a ticket office is for selling a ticket.
Actors can star in films.
A nose is a part of a body.
fruit grows on plants.
A box is a rectangular object for putting other objects in.
a bathroom is used for washing up.
A nebula is a cloud of gas and dust in space.
Meditation would make you want to go into a trance.
thunder is a noise.
A fountain pen is used to write on paper.
A push pin is an effective way of keeping various papers on a notice board.
Something you find at the supermarket is goods.
a living room is a place.
Something you find in a building is people.
A calf is a young cow.
God is love.
A video is a movie recorded on magnetic tape.
You would advance into battle because you want to defeat the enemy.
A text is a way of storing knowledge.
Something you find at a hockey game is beer.
Watermelon is a delicious, red fruit with a thick green rind.
Something you find in a trunk is keepsakes.
George Washington is a very famous man.
a garden is for growing vegetables.
Strine is a comic transliteration of Australian pronunciation.
One of the things you do when you get in shape is exercise.
Sherlock Holmes is a fictitious detective.
the world is big.
Death is a consequence of being alive.
a person doesn't want to lose a loved one.
Many sports use a ball.
a check is a representation of money.
Freedom is an abstract concept.
red is a primary color.
Karate is a Japanese martial art.
An ellipse is a flattened circle.
HAL is an intelligent computer.
a person doesn't want a hangover.
An excavation is a hole in the ground.
A child wants to learn.
A brick is a small, hard, heavy, block shaped thing.
Exercise is good for your health.
hygienic is another word for clean.
Windows is an operating system.
Fruit salad is a healthy food serving.
The moon is a satellite.
PC is an abbreviation for personal computer.
playing jacks is a childhood game.
Fish is a very good sea food.
the earth's surface is mostly water.
a guitar is a musical instrument.
A pizzeria is a type of restaurant that serves pizza.
Gumbo is a style of Cajun food common in Louisiana. 
Something you find in the water is seaweed.
Some artists paint.
A bagel is a chewy kind of roll.
Running is a good cardiovascular workout.
You are likely to find a doll in doll house. 
A resort hotel on the beach is a great place for a vacation.
Badminton is a very popular sport in Asia.
a pan is a cooking utensil for heating food.
Asia is the largest continent.
A key is a clue in a riddle.
Leather is a very fine material.
A highway is a wide road for cars.
Aqua is a blue-white color.
western riding is a lot more fun than English. 
A pentagon is a five-sided figure.
fruit is a delicious source of vitamins and minerals.
If you want to meet a friend then you should make a date.
a globe is a three-dimensional map of the world.
A CD is also a type of savings account.
brick is a common building material.
You would take a walk because you want to exercise.
A bass is an instrument which makes a low sound.
an infant is a newborn baby.
A trophy is an award for an accomplishment.
Something you might do while going to a performance is watch.
a safety pin is a spring like device with a.
Emperor penguins is a species of flightless birds which dwell in Antarctica.
okapi is an African mammal.
humans have two arms.
Wayne Gretzky is a good hockey player.
One of the things you do when you wash your clothes is apply soap to your clothes.
an axe is an old tool.
One of the things you do when you buy a hamburger is eat it.
Playing darts is a game of skill.
Language is a system of words and combinations of words.
A tarantula is a large, hairy spider.
walking uphill is a lot of work.
A foam is a mass of bubbles in a matrix of liquid film.
Diana Krall is a jazz singer and piano player.
A haystack is a big pile of hay.
a paper page is an information display medium.
A bungalow is a small one story house.
A celebration is a gathering of friends for a reason that is happy.
basket ball is a sport.
Jesus is a short name for Jesus of Nazareth.
One of the things you do when you have a shower is adjust the water temperature.
an axe is a sharp blade on a long handle which humans use to chop things like wood.
an advertisement is for selling a product.
Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.
A diaper is a baby's nappy.
A shale shaker is a screen used in the oil industry.
A valley is a flat place between mountains.
Suction is a good way to unclog toilets.
a nose ring is a ring worn in the nose.
star trek is a pretend story.
A doll house is a tiny house for dolls.
a building's size is a measurement.
radio is an audible media.
cupboard is a compound word comprised of cup and board.
violin is a special string instrument for creating musical sound.
breaking news is a current event.
A gate is an external door.
Dressage is a type of horse riding competition.
cashmere is a very fine wool.
a radish is a vegetable.
Buddhism is a way of living.
dinner is a good time to gather.
A pair of pants is a single piece of clothing.
Corn is a very old food source for humans.
A shopping mall is a depressing place.
a puma is a living animal.
A T1 is a fast Internet connection used by colleges and businesses.
Something you might do while going to a movie is laugh.
Somewhere a church can be is in a city.
A pill is a delivery vehicle for a drug.
Holly is a tree with pointy leaves and red berries.
Being an actor in a play is a thrilling experience.
a trophy is a reward for winning a contest.
Coffee is an addictive substance.
Time is a universal constant.
smog is a serious health hazard.
Cheating is a bad thing for people to do.
Model airplanes is a hobby that some children and adults do.
GPS is a global positioning system.
A worthless object is an object that has no value.
a peace sign is a symbol that stands for peace.
An ER diagram is a conceptual schema for a database.
a sailboat is a machine for transportation.
A kite is a toy.
Waterbury is a city in Connecticut.
Privacy is a major issue in medicine.
A foyer is a glorified mud room.
Landry is a cowboy.
A skeleton is a supporting structure for the body.
Earth is a huge stone.
University of Michigan is an excellent university.
Swiss chard is a type of vegetable.
George Washington is a dead president.
A dartboard is a dangerous thing to stand in front of.
Schwarzenegger is an actor in several movies.
a fireplace is a safe way to contain a fire in a home.
A nonagon is a nine-sided figure.
Pi is a transcendental number.
a jet plane is a plane powered by jets.
A cup of coffee is a good brew to drink upon awakening from sleep.
A laptop computer is a portable computer.
Fenfluramine is a nonspecific releaser of serotonin which augments the effectiveness of clomipramine and
Backgammon is an old game which uses dice.
kissing is a pleasant sensation.
Something that might happen while applying for a job is you give out your resume.
A dental plan is a benefit offered by corporations to employees.
photosynthesis is a photo-chemical process that plants use to generate energy.
Fatigue is a deadly problem on Australian roads.
a motorway is a place for cars to travel on.
Backgammon is a game of mathematics and luck.
Nylon is an organic polymer.
A design is a planned arrangement of visual elements in order to construct an organized visual pattern.
Propoutis is a darkish region on Mars.
Greed is a driving force in the human experience.
Something you find in a drawer is a phone book.
Abstraction is a visual representation of something.
An EXIT sign is a way out.
Kermit the frog is a Muppet. 
Ma halo is a way to say thanks in Hawaiian.
food is a foundation for health.
A good place to get people to see your ad is an advertising panel on the side of a transit bus.
A hue is a property of color defined by distinctions within the visual spectrum.
A bedroom is an area in a home.
People watch movies.
A good gift for an older person is a roll of self-stick postal stamps.
playing music for someone is a nice thing.
a person wants a lot of friends.
Something you find on the beach is starfish.
a fish tank is a container that holds water and fish in it.
A prison is a place for incarcerating and rehabilitating felons.
Making people laugh is a good way to make friends.
A subway is an underground train system.
Living life is a learning experience.
Swimming the English Channel is an athletic challenge.
go fish is a card game.
a study is a room in a person's house.
Fred Leftwich is an indigenous person.
bob Dylan is a good musician.
A hide-a-bed is a couch and a bed.
a sofa is an item of furniture that goes in the living room.
kafir is a Japanese lime.
A censer is an incense burner.
Utopia is a dark region on Mars.
A hot dog is a sausage served with mustard in a sliced piece of bread.
a person doesn't want to be rich.
A celebration is an open expression of happiness about a positive event.
Houston is a city, and a city can have a mayor.
You would discover the truth because you want honesty.
A ship is a large floating vessel that can be used to travel across water.
a dining room is a room where people eat.
Chilled champagne is an elegant beverage.
Irving is also the first name of a person.
Babar is a children's book.
A county is an area in a state.
carbon monoxide is a greenhouse gas.
lightning is a large natural electrical discharge in the sky.
Sport fishing is a popular past time.
Walking in the woods is a pleasant means of exercise.
French toast are edible.
A cailleach bheur is a blue hag in Celtic lore.
The USA is a country in North America.
One of the things you do when you exercise is aerobic activity.
Something that might happen when you stand in line is you yawn.
Wedding is an important social institution.
India is a country in Asia.
Michael Jordan is a very good basketball player.
Something that might happen as a consequence of killing is a funeral.
skiing is an exciting activity.
humans are very adaptable.
Lithium is a proven treatment for bipolar disorder.
a person wants quiet.
Neotony is an appealing look.
Something that might happen when you snore is waking your wife up.
swimming is an outdoor activity.
Somewhere food can be is in your stomach.
Twister is a good movie.
You are likely to find a motorway in a city.
taking a cruise is a nice vacation.
Something you find in the fridge is fruit.
mitochondrion is an eukaryotic cell organelle.
Sometimes creating something to help other people causes happiness.
Typing is a way of printing text on a page.
Somewhere paper clips can be is in the office.
royalty is artifact of former times.
You can use a clock to set an alarm.
a chest is a place to store jewelry.
Something you find at a movie is entertainment.
sweating is a way of regulating body temperature.
Something you find on television is game shows.
some correction fluid is a color other than white.
You are likely to find a small dog in a garden.
prison is a deterrent for crime.
A person does not want to catch the flu.
salt dissolves in water.
a bone is a very enticing treat for a dog.
a starter is part of a car.
cola is a carbonated drink.
a work of art is for admiring.
a stopwatch is an old device for measuring time.
Something that might happen when you die is you go to heaven.
Tampering with mailboxes is a federal offense.
a person can thank god.
A heart attack is a medical condition.
Something you might do while opening a gift is cut the ribbon.
hockey is a dangerous sport.
Something you find in a building is chairs.
Target shooting is a test of skill.
You are likely to find a cave in a mountain .
star trek is a television show.
Something you find in the fridge is apples.
Walking along the beach is a solitary pleasure.
Something that might happen when you go to a party is dancing.
Marmaduke is a cartoon in the newspaper.
You are likely to find an eye in someones face.
a phone is a manufactured device used for communication.
bells make a sound.
Paisley is a pattern.
A player can win a game.
An instrument is an object used to make music in a symphony.
One of the things you do when you play a harp is sit down.
Petroleum is a combustible fluid.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking a bath is you get clean.
a stethoscope is a listening device used to listen to the heartbeat.
Somewhere a car can be is in a junkyard.
cooking a meal is for having something to eat.
Suction is a force applied to counter the normally acting force to reverse the flow of a fluid.
Something you might do while watching a TV show is sit down.
Taxation is a process that results in taxes.
Sometimes paying by check causes delay.
Walking is a slower method of transport than riding a bike.
You are likely to find a mouse in a corn field.
Napster is a file sharing program for music.
You would memorize because you want to remember.
observational learning is an important way to understand your world.
a pilot can fly an airplane.
star trek is an interesting show.
An optometrist is an eye doctor.
A metaphor is a method of relating ideas and objects with language.
Cheese is a good protein food.
Cash is used to buy things with.
An iron is a small appliance.
You are likely to find a guitar in a band.
A safety pin is a small, handy invention of wire and thin metal used for holding together pieces of cloth.
Something you might do while opening a gift is tear the wrapping paper.
A mountain is a rocky area.
Something that might happen when you go to another place in the same city cheaply is you save some money.
a Swiss army knife is a useful pocket tool.
You are likely to find an egg in a nest.
A chair by the fire is a good place to read.
a hat is used for keeping the sun out of the eyes.
a wedding ring is a symbol of unity between two people.
playing soccer requires a ball.
yo-yo is a toy on a string.
The first thing you do when you grow vegetables is plant the seeds.
Carving decoy ducks is a dying art.
If you want to clean clothing then you should take them to a cleaners.
A person is an individual homosapien.
a shower stall is for showering in.
elegance in every living is a common goal of educated people.
Something that might happen when you go see a film is eating popcorn.
Hawaii is a place.
A bat is a flying mammal.
malaise is a confusing pain.
You are likely to find an injury in an emergency room.
Charles Barkley is a basketball player.
You would skate because you want to exercise.
Kissing is a very intimate act.
If you want to get clean then you should wash off.
The knee is part of the leg.
going to the store is for spending money.
a violin is a tool to create music.
One of the things you do when you surprise someone is laugh.
flavored coffee is a recent popular luxury.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing ball is losing it.
An hourglass is an old-fashioned way to measure one hour of time.
Something that might happen when you meet girls is they laugh at you.
a washcloth is a cleaning rag for people.
writing requires pencils.
Tithonius Lacus is a darkish region on Mars.
an iron can press clothes.
soy sauce is a food dressing.
Something you find in a drawer is potpourri.
A state highway is a type of road.
A person does not want to have a depression.
Bill Clinton is a former President of the United States of America.
The effect of beginning work is panic.
cougar is another name for mountain lion.
blanketing is used for warmth.
sailing is an ancient mode of transportation.
falling requires the use of gravity.
Stock is an annual plant.
Something you might do while becoming a scuba diver is breathe oxygen.
a rubber chicken is a standard prop for clowns.
Something that might happen while reaching an advantage is happiness.
Mead is a yellow drink.
Something that might happen when you give a plug is you show confidence.
One of the things you do when you play tennis is approach the net.
sympathy would make you want to forgive someone.
A style is a stylistic variation of a font.
You can use a hairpin to hold hair in place.
Houston is a city in the state of Texas which is governed by a mayor.
a mill is used for grinding.
A Punnet Square is a method used to establish probabilities.
god is used for hope.
Jean Butler is a female professional step dancer.
a towel bar is used for drying towels.
Dortmund is a city in western Germany. 
Something that might happen as a consequence of eating dinner is indigestion.
Chevy is a short way to say Chevrolet.
The effect of going on the stage is performing.
Duo Maxwell is an easygoing character on Gundam Wing.
Parents have children.
a temple is a house for spiritual congregation.
You can use a necklace to decorate.
A prosthesis is an artificial device to replace a missing body part.
Oriole is a bird.
Sleeping would make you want to snore.
A cruise is a luxurious way to sail.
Something that might happen as a consequence of entertaining people is pleasure.
a chest of drawers is a stack of boxes to store objects in.
Something you find in the mail box is spiders.
A freckle is a dot on the skin.
Sometimes going to market causes you to buy things.
An envelope is a paper shaped to hold a sheet of folded paper for mailing purposes.
A t-shirt is a piece of clothing.
an HMO is a health maintenance organization that you pay for health insurance coverage.
Baseball bats are made of wood.
A bass is a very different thing from a base.
punishing someone is for Revenge.
News is a form of communication.
You are likely to find a koala in China.
cycling is a healthy exercise.
People write books.
One of the things you do when you study is absorb information.
Children enjoy playing.
champagne is an alcoholic drink.
You can use an instrument triangle to make sounds.
Human vision is a complex system.
Something you find at a bus depot is a traveler.
One of the things you do when you fight the enemy is shoot them.
You are likely to find an exam table in a doctor's office.
a window is a hole in a wall.
If you want to smoke then you should buy cigarettes.
A pencil sharpener is a device to sharpen pencils.
You would buy fresh fruits and vegetables because you want to eat healthy food.
Trash is another way of saying garbage.
a King can govern a country.
Blue fescue is a type of ornamental grass.
a student can ask questions.
Velvet is a soft, fuzzy fabric.
BBQ is a good way to cook food.
Denmark is a country in Europe.
Something you find at a race track is race cars.
Moxy Fruvous is a good band.
You are likely to find a swimming pool in a school.
Something you need to do before you surf the web is connect to the Internet. 
A blade is part of a knife.
a heated towel rack is used for heating towels.
You are likely to find an address label in a drawer.
Sumo is a form of wrestling between two people.
You are likely to find a study in a house.
The effect of maintaining good health is that you live longer.
Something that might happen while using a television is entertainment.
Tachycardia is a rapid heart rate.
A tank is a weapon.
Horseshoes are made of iron.
A comb can be used to remove tangles from your hair.
a flask is an old name for a container.
socks are worn inside shoes.
Something you need to do before you travel is pack.
men marry women.
Manitoba is a province in Canada.
The effect of drinking alcohol is impaired judgment. 
Something you find on a desktop is a lamp.
listening to music is for your enjoyment.
a lady is a respectful word for a woman.
the earth is an oblate spheroid.
People take vacations on cruise ships.
The last thing you do when you make a phone call is hang up.
A Pug is a kind of dog.
Something that might happen while communicating is you learn.
One of the things you do when you eat in a fast food restaurant is order the food.
Sometimes eating in a fast food restaurant causes gas.
Pi is a mathematical constant.
Something that might happen when you wait tables is you serve food.
You are likely to find a toy soldier in the toy box.
Something that might happen while fishing is you loose your hook.
Sinus Meridiani is a dark region on Mars.
A CPU is part of a computer.
Sometimes watching a television show causes sleep.
You can use a club chair to sit.
people is another way of saying person.
Something you might do while getting fit is running.
Something you might do while playing chess is capture a pawn.
If you want to maintain muscle strength then you should work out.
Tharsis is a light region on Mars.
Mercury is poisonous.
A Cadillac is an expensive car.
Some criminals are people.
Khazarian is a dead language.
If you want to take in a film then you should go to a cinema.
If you want to get some physical activity then you should go to the gym.
Birds can be colored.
A republic is a specific type of state.
A village is a town.
Something you find in your mouth is tongue. 
emeralds are a stone.
One of the things you do when you give a plug is advertise a company.
Some people are mean.
If you want to remember a phone number then you should memorize it.
Something you might do while cogitating is think about things.
San Francisco is a bay city on the west edge of central California land.
If you want to be in charge of a project then you should volunteer.
You are likely to find a grill in the back yard.
a shelf is used for storing books.
A sapling is a young tree.
You are likely to find a monkey in India.
a mast is for sailing.
You are likely to find a parking lot in a city.
A cupboard is a storage area for dishes and cups.
going fishing requires bait.
Buckets can carry water.
a person wants to make more money.
Coffee is a low-margin product.
A dog is a type of pet.
You are likely to find a large city shopping mall in a large city.
The effect of bringing suit is having to go to court.
A treacherous person is a false friend.
Something that might happen while taking in a film is eating popcorn.
Something that might happen when you have a bath is becoming clean.
a person can tie a shoe.
Swimming in amongst jellyfish is a bad idea.
a foot is for standing.
If you want to buy presents then you should go to a store.
a music stand is used to hold sheet music.
Oil of thyme is a mucous membrane irritant.
a plane can arrive at an airport.
If you want to cook a meal then you should have a source of heat.
The brain is part of the body.
A mine is an industrial facility used to extract minerals from the ground.
Something that might happen when you have a party is dancing.
You are likely to find a weasel in backyards.
Diamond is a strong material.
a rook is a chess piece that starts the game on the far corners of the board.
Microphones are used to amplify sound.
going on the Internet requires a computer.
shades are used for blocking sunlight.
A birthday is a form of celebration.
A passenger can board a ship.
elephants are very big.
You would fiddle because you're bored.
French toast is a kind of food.
Shirts have buttons.
Something that might happen while being in charge of a project is managing.
Something that might happen as a consequence of remembering is nostalgia.
You would find information because you want to know.
Something you find in a country is a town.
If you want to urinate then you should go to the bathroom.
grapes are a kind of fruit.
Sofas are good for sleeping on.
A hog is a mammal.
Something you find in the freezer is leftovers.
One of the things you do when you dive is wear scuba gear.
You are likely to find a shed in the backyard.
a person wants to have a dream.
You are likely to find a beaver in North America.
A harmonica is a very small, reed, musical instrument.
You can use a calculator to do math.
a tooth is for chewing.
The Earth travels around the sun.
fighting the enemy is for winning the war.
God is a concept.
Something you find in a house is tables.
Something you might do while signing a contract is read it.
red is a primary color Broken glass is often sharp.
Somewhere a cat can be is at the Humane Society.
literature is for the learning.
dinner is usually the last meal of the day.
Somewhere love can be is inside my heart.
a person doesn't want to fall off a cliff.
Something you find in a drawer is a paper clip.
You would shop because you want to buy something.
You are likely to find a lizard in New Mexico.
You would watch a movie because you want entertainment.
If you want to act in a play then you should rehearse.
Something you find at the beach is the ocean.
The freeway is a road.
You are likely to find a subway station in New York City.
a person doesn't want to eat poison.
If you want to buy something then you should go to the store.
all people were born.
Cats have paws.
paper can be written on.
Nuts and bolts hold things together.
Something you find on a table is a lamp.
Something you find in a restaurant is a bill.
Something that might happen while playing the piano is making music.
liquids are wet.
criminals can case the joint.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in Germany. 
a person wants someone to care about them.
Cows graze.
If you want to think then you should use your brains.
Something you find in your mouth is saliva.
Sometimes having fun causes smiling.
A duckling is a young duck.
cats are felines.
A credit card is a device for gaining access to capital.
Something that might happen when you attend class is you fall asleep.
Compulsory referral for behavioral assessment is a particular savage form of organizational attack.
an animal is used for petting.
Susanville is a city in California.
An activity a bird can do is build a nest.
Mare Sirenum is a dark region on Mars.
An Oboe is a music instrument.
Watercolor is a aqua medium that artists use.
a person doesn't want to be a victim.
French toast is a kind of toast.
The effect of playing poker is winning money.
Something you might do while waking up in the morning is stretch.
clouds can rain water.
A saxophone is a musical instrument.
You can use an apartment building to live in.
A mother can care for her children.
Something you might do while playing basketball is jump.
a ribbon is used for making a bow.
some birds eat worms.
You are likely to find ice cubes in the freezer.
Cows are herd animals.
Something you find at the corner of two streets is traffic lights.
Something that might happen as a consequence of flying in an airplane is a crash.
skeletons are made of bones.
If you want to drive a car then you should start the engine.
a bicycle is a machine used for transportation.
trash should be recycled.
Something you find at a hockey game is a referee.
You are likely to find a ficus in a plant shop.
Every country has a flag.
A container can store many different items.
Dogs make good companions.
You are likely to find a rotary file in a office.
Something you might do while playing football is getting hurt.
If you want to get warm then you should put on a coat.
humans are the only creatures that cook food.
You are likely to find a marmot in a burrow.
a garden is for growing plants.
Eagles are large birds.
going to bed is for relaxation.
a sphere is round.
You are likely to find a hairpin in your hair.
drills make holes.
dogs like to ride in cars.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having a bath is getting clean.
You can use a ranch to raise animals.
a friend can keep a secret.
Something you need to do before you go see a film is go to the movie theater.
Knives can cut things.
libraries are quiet places.
If you want to fight inflation then you should have money.
a sofa is a large comfortable seat.
If you want to rest then you should lay down.
Candy is a snack with much sugar.
A library is a collection of books.
A nap is a short sleep during the day.
Balloons are sometimes filled with helium.
Nokia is a town in Finland.
Something you find in the universe is dark matter.
IBM is a type of PC. 
Idaho is a state.
Oxygen is a flammable gas.
You are likely to find a kitten in the litter box.
Iran is a mostly Muslim nation.
Baby cats are called kittens.
You are likely to find a card in a deck of cards.
fruit is an important food source.
Scheme is a programming language.
a romance book is a book about romance.
Something that might happen when you check vital signs is feeling for a pulse.
One of the things you do when you pay cash is avoid tracking.
a person wants a comfortable life.
a door with lock is for locking things in.
You are likely to find a lizard in Utah.
crude oil is a form of petroleum.
People can smell with their noses.
Jerry Springer is a talk show host.
Fish live in rivers.
A map is a symbolic representation of the ground.
The Antarctic is very cold.
a garden hose is a long tube which carries water to your garden.
goldfish live in a bowl.
Changing a tire is a dirty job.
Something that might happen when you take the car for a drive is an accident.
going on a cruise is a good way to relax.
You are likely to find an outfield in the baseball field.
A log boom is a heavy thing to tow.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in a pound.
A dollar is a unit of money.
You are likely to find fabric in a fabric store.
Throwing a cake at someone is a form of assault.
some people are superstitious.
A paper clip is an example of a paper fastener.
Hamlet is a famous character in a play by Shakespeare.
a freeway is a road for lots of cars.
ears cannot talk.
an atlas is a map of the whole globe.
fruit juice is a healthy alternative to carbonated beverages.
A score is a piece of paper with music on it.
a woodwind instrument is for making music.
a pocket is a pouch sewn into a pair of pants.
Latitude and Longitude is a system for marking locations on the surface of the earth.
Backgammon is a game of skill and luck.
Trees are green.
canning is a way to keep food from spoiling.
a unicycle is a vehicle.
The effect of committing to memory is learning.
Something you might do while shouting at the top of your voice is hurt your throat.
A tapir is a plant-eating, hoofed mammal with a small trunk.
Voice mail is a message that someone leaves on a phone.
taking an oath requires honesty.
A house boat is a boat which serves as a floating house.
Macaroni is a tube-shaped noodle.
Rubber is a natural substance.
writing a term paper requires researching the topic.
space is a dangerous place.
A vehicle bomb is an effective way to destroy a building.
Bono is ad advocate of relieving poor countries of their external debt obligations.
Something you find at a fraternity house is beer.
Hockey is an intense game of power and agility.
A track is a defined path between two points.
a blanket is a rectangular piece of fabric.
If you want to take a walk then you should go outside.
A miracle is a supernatural event.
A eon is a long span of time.
Howie is a literary character.
A scale is a machine for weighing things.
coke is a general term for all carbonated beverages.
A journal is another name for a diary.
a paper page is almost always a rectangle.
A mine is a man-made cave in the ground.
marina is a place with many boats.
A dining room is a place to eat a meal.
a hand held object is a small object.
An octagon is an eight-sided figure.
a compact disk is a device to record electronic impulses. 
A passage is a tunnel through stone.
Education of supervisors and coworkers is an accommodation for people with psychiatric disabilities.
A hexagon is a six-sided figure.
San Francisco Bridge is a famous place.
macular degeneration is a disease of the eye.
a cell phone is a portable telephone that fits in your pockets.
A rowboat is a small boat.
A decagon is a closed shape with 10 sides.
One of the things you do when you open a business is advertise your store hours and location.
A password is a secret character string that allows a person to gain entry to a computer system.
morphine is a controlled substance in the United States.
War is an ongoing problem in many countries of the world.
war is a waste of time and people.
A heptagon is a seven-sided figure.
Something you find on a boat is a motor.
Bryan is a person's name.
Michelle Pfeiffer is a popular actress.
Nokia is a communications company from Finland.
A convenient way to dispose of your household garbage is a trash compactor.
a fax is a machine for transmitting the marks on paper.
A globe is a round model of earth with the continents shown on the surface.
Zorro is a human mythical hero figure.
Horseback riding is a lot of fun.
A highway is a large road for cars.
Television is a distraction provided by the Aristocracy to keep the populous at bay.
U2 is a famous human rock band.
lager is a light beer.
A screw is actually a type of machine.
newspaper is a consumable that is a good candidate for recycling.
Penicillin is a medicine used in many diseases.
Writing is a means of storing and transmitting information.
language is a means of communication.
a worm is a common fish bait.
Light in the window is a sign that someone is home.
music is a pleasant pastime.
a bike is a clean method of transportation.
A Burmese Mountain Dog is a breed of dog.
Athens is a city in Greece.
A good moment is a good experience.
overpopulation is a solvable problem.
kelp is an aquatic plant.
a penknife is a useful tool.
Multiplan is a very sophisticated calculator.
new jersey is a place.
China is an enormous economy.
Yerba mate is a stimulating and refreshing drink.
An organ is another kind of keyboard which music can be played upon.
color of fish is a function of the fish's survival.
Organizational culture is a major impediment to women's progress into senior management.
A cauldron is a small, black, cast-iron pot.
Clay is a material that some sculptors use.
a taxiway turn off is a location.
a business is a money-making enterprise.
a dining room is a place to eat food.
A stop watch is a way to measure quick time.
a picnic basket is a basket with a handle.
Chicken is a popular form of food.
nitro glycerin is an explosive.
A glass is a vehicle which holds liquid.
Chicken kiev is a specific way of cooking chicken.
Grill is a way of cooking food.
a lifesaver is a type of candy and a type of rescue device.
Spitting in a public water fountain is a disgusting habit.
A marathon is an event for individual runners.
Gorillaz is a rap band that only appears as cartoons.
Canada is a barren wasteland.
another sharp thing is a cactus.
Music is an acquired skill.
Bendrofluazide is a thiazide diuretic.
music is a good and creative way to express yourself.
a waterfall is a vertical plane of moving water.
A choker is a wide band necklace.
hetz midget arborvitae is a plant.
Eating crackers in bed is a bad idea.
Canadian hemlock is a plant.
Yeast is an ingredient in bread.
Learning is an activity that takes place in a school.
a tasty dessert is apple pie and vanilla ice cream.
a penny saved is a penny earned.
Controlling travel is a passport's job.
Tissue engineering is a new science.
Singing is a good way to express yourself.
If you want to swim then you should go to the pool.
Eight-ball is a popular pocket billiards game.
Something you find at a zoo is lions.
Perl is a scripting language.
If you want to buy a house then you should have money.
Watching television is a popular entertainment form.
The effect of getting a divorce is freedom.
a key is a shaped piece of metal that opens a lock.
a farmer can gather his crops.
star trek is a TV show.
The effect of driving your car is pollution.
Micheal Jordan is an excellent basketball player.
a person doesn't want to starve to death.
a living room usually is a nice welcome area.
Something you find at a wedding is people.
Eating outside is a lot of fun.
painting a house requires ladders.
a yo-yo is a type of toy.
You are likely to find a show in the theater. 
exercise is an event that is repeatable.
You are likely to find hair gel in a bathroom.
An hourglass is an outdated way to measure time.
Mountain in a distance.
Mother is an important member of a family.
Somewhere nobody can be is in hell.
A landmark may be used for navigation.
A candle has a wick.
wood is a renewable resource.
You are likely to find a fungus in a bathroom.
One group's freedom fighter is another group's terrorist.
Something that might happen while eating ice cream is getting brain freeze.
dancing is a great way to relieve tension.
People sit on couches.
humor is an innate human trait.
You are likely to find a piece in a puzzle.
a bed is a horizontal surface used for resting.
relaxing helps cool off.
A piggy bank is a child's coin bank shaped like a pig.
A person doesn't want to go to hell.
Santa Fe is a place in New Mexico.
Something you might do while playing baseball is sweat.
Honda accord is a popular type of cars.
If you want to go to the store then you should get in the car.
United States is a free country.
Something that might happen as a consequence of lighting a fire is burning things.
Dart is a word with multiple meanings.
You are likely to find a business in an office building.
a buffet is an assembly line for assembling meals.
A triangle is a shape.
Baseball is a game of intelligence and athletics.
Something you find in jail is guards.
a panda is a bear-looking black and white mammal found in Asia. 
Something you need to do before you express information is talk.
an organ is a wind instrument used to make music.
A person can join a club.
a decoy is an object that looks like a real thing.
Something you find at a zoo is wild animals.
Equestrian is an Olympic sport.
Something you find in a library is readers.
AI is a term used in reference to computers.
Something that might happen while talking is you sneeze.
affection is a wholesome activity.
Something you find at a desk is work.
A snout is another name for a nose.
If you want to paint a picture then you should buy paints.
Meat is animal flesh.
You are likely to find a lion in Africa.
a tortilla is a round, flat, planar type of corn bread.
Something that might happen when you grow vegetables is pride.
A plunger is a tool to unclog toilets.
You can use a linen chest to store sheets.
a department store is a place that sells many different items.
Something you might do while maintaining good health is take some vitamins.
A tile floor is an uncomfortable place to sleep.
You are likely to find a disposable razor in the bathroom.
This apple is a beautiful golden green color.
Something you find in a house is a lamp.
BSE is a contagious disease.
If you want to stand in line then you should find the end of the line.
Mail merging is a powerful and useful marketing tool.
a lake is for fishing in.
a puck is a type of ball used in hockey.
Something that might happen as a consequence of enjoying the company of your friends is you relax.
drinking is a good idea.
A motherboard is part of a computer.
You would climb because you want exercise.
A lamb is a young sheep.
Something you find in jail is bars.
Disclosure of a psychiatric disability is a deliberate decision.
Children are innocent.
a parking garage is a place to leave vehicles for safe keeping.
Sometimes diminishing your own hunger causes eating.
marriage is another step in life.
You can use a route to travel.
A window is a file that is opened.
The effect of buying something is ownership.
one man's religion is another man's cult.
Sometimes staying in bed causes bed sores.
A fan is a cooling device.
You are likely to find a bass baritone in choir.
A cat doesn't want to get wet.
an hourglass is an ancient type of timekeeper.
Washing machines are for cleaning clothes.
Korn is a hard rock band.
The effect of playing a game is stress.
a CD is a round flat disk.
Something you might do while enjoying the day is take a nap.
Jazz is a universal language.
Something that might happen while thinking is you get an idea.
Blackmail is a crime in the United States.
Saws have teeth.
being on time is a good trait to have.
Something you might do while playing a game of chess is lose.
wishing on a birthday cake is a popular custom.
Something that might happen while playing tennis is you lose a ball.
a showroom is a large room filled with things for sale.
shouting at the top of your voice requires yelling.
sushi is an acquired taste.
Firemen have dangerous jobs.
A crucifix is a cross with a representation of Jesus Christ fastened to it.
A governor can govern a state.
An ergonomic chair is a chair designed for sitting and typing.
clippers are for cutting things.
Homework is a method for learning outside of school.
One of the things you do when you cry is shed tears.
A creature is a type of being.
baby dogs are called puppies.
Yahtzee is a game played with dice.
Something you might do while singing is open your mouth.
Horse jumping is another sport enjoyed by the upper classes.
One of the things you do when you wash your clothes is sort them by colors.
A Zoo is a section of land on the earth that houses a menagerie of animals.
mustard is a condiment.
A drawing room is a room in a home.
Plants need carbon dioxide to live.
a car is another name for an automobile.
You are likely to find a sofa bed in a living room.
a kiss is a way to communicate affection.
tools are important.
Something you need to do before you take a bath is fill the tub with water.
If you want to snore then you should go to sleep.
space travel is a modern wonder.
Stars are very far away.
A landmass is a large area of land.
books store knowledge.
Sailing is a recreational sport.
Something you might do while enjoying the company of your friends is talk.
A cup of coffee is a welcome brew to have after waking from sleep.
A light switch is used to turn off a light.
cheese is aged milk.
A wheel is a circular object that rotates around its center.
Solitaire is a popular card game.
a person doesn't want an STD.
Breathing is a repetitive process of inhaling and exhaling.
Saturn is the sixth planet from the sun.
a pleasure garden is a wonderful place to be.
an MP3 file is an inaccurate digital recording of an audio signal.
Frusemide is a loop diuretic.
a keyboard is an input device.
Barq's root beer is a soft drink.
Harare is a city in Zimbabwe.
Torquay is a world-class center for surf-wear.
A lasso is a rope with a loop on one end that is used for catching animals.
hockey is a dangerous game that requires a lot of padding.
Zucchini is a type of squash.
Pansy is an annual plant.
Kayaking is a popular water sport.
An ingestive hetrotroph is an organism that takes in food from its environment.
a billionaire is a rich person.
Heavy Metal is an overrated form of expression.
Sunday is a weekend day.
One of the things you do when you wash your clothes is add laundry detergent.
Microsoft Chart is a tool for translating numeric data into graphic format.
A soprano is a voice that is not deep.
A problematic relationship is a relationship in turmoil.
liter is a unit of measurement in the metric system.
a battle is a fight between enemies.
Permaculture is a design system for creating sustainable human environments.
An iceberg is a floating island of ice.
a Japanese restaurant is a restaurant that serves Japanese food.
A breeze is a mild wind.
Nature is art.
Voting by a Show of Hands is an easy, straightforward method.
making a film is a technical art.
parking lot is a synonym for car park.
Shooting over a rise is a very unsafe practice.
a dental chair is an operating platform.
A terminal emulator is an application used to make a personal computer act like a terminal to a host computer.
cashmere is a very soft wool.
One hour developing is a waste of money.
Twister is a film about tornadoes.
a title is a short description of something.
dental care is a kind of health care.
A sting ray is a kind of fish.
A wristwatch is a portable time piece.
Horseplay is a word for vigorous play.
BMW is a driving machine.
an atlas is a collection of maps.
A document window is a window that displays a document.
World is another word for earth.
A blue jay is a kind of bird.
A calendar is a graph of the days in a year.
Colgate is a fluoride toothpaste.
Attire is another word for clothing.
Wenlock is a deserted gold mining town.
A track often is a circle.
One man's garbage is another man's treasure.
A sense of humor is a good trait.
accord is a kind of car that some people buy.
a cafeteria is a dining area.
A commodity is an object that can be bought and sold.
A cave painting is a painting on the wall of a cave.
Wolverhampton is a city in England.
A bus is a form of transportation.
Civilization is an example of forward progress.
a terrace is a good way to grow crops on land with sloping surfaces.
kallay's juniper is a plant.
Dinner is a great time for socialization.
a whistle is a high-pitched sound.
a love seat is a chair for two people.
Star Trek is a TV show.
A triangle is an unusual thing in a rock band.
One of the things you do when you write is a pen.
a door is a passageway.
getting a job requires applying for a job.
Gambling is an important business in Nevada.
Thursday is a weekday.
going to buy something at a shop is a task.
A plunger is a tool to be used carefully.
Rochester is a city in new York. 
Being in love is a wonderful experience.
marriage is a promise.
giving a gift requires buying a gift.
A bathroom is a specialized room in a house for bathing and elimination of bodily wastes.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing games is happiness.
Writing is a series of marks on paper.
You are likely to find a potato in a market.
Snowboarding is a new sport.
Hellespontus is a darkish region on Mars.
a toy is an object that someone uses for the sole purpose of entertainment.
a person wants candies.
a saxophone is a common instrument in jazz.
Oxus is a light region on Mars.
A debit card is a financial key.
Something you find at a military base is a weapon.
Confetti is small pieces of paper.
A port scan is an attempt to gain access to a computer by searching for open ports.
A chronometer is an instrument for accurate measurement of time.
You are likely to find a closet in a school.
Commercial fishing is a dangerous occupation.
A dictionary is a reference for definition of words.
Marriage is a legal ceremony.
Something you find on the sea is driftwood.
A canopy bed is a bed surrounded by a curtain.
paying taxes is a burden.
a baby is a newborn human.
If you want to rest then you should close your eyes.
music is a form of communication.
A pit bull is a dog groomed for fighting.
A number is any information that can be used mathematically.
Russia is a country.
Horse jumping is an Olympic sport.
Hitting a ball into a cup is a golf thing.
Job-sharing is an accommodation for people with psychiatric disabilities.
Something you find on your desk is clutter.
An acaricide is a pesticide used to control mites.
A revelation is a new idea.
a sideboard is a good place to put dessert during dinner.
You are likely to find paper in a book.
Sugar is a main ingredient in candy.
Milk is a solution from a female cow.
A salt shaker is a small container for table salt.
lyrics are words sung to music.
a hacket is a tool for chopping small pieces of wood.
An UZI is a type of gun manufactured in Israel.
An axe is a way of breaking wood into smaller pieces.
Something you find on the fridge is fingerprints.
A yellow ribbon is a decorative object.
Gazpacho is a type of Spanish soup that is served cold.
Windsor is a city in the province of Ontario.
performing is for entertainment.
living room is a place for family and friends to meet.
A warehouse is a large building for storing things.
a sail boat is a method of traveling on top of water.
a stool is a 3-legged chair.
You are likely to find soda in a paper cup.
Dusty miller is an annual plant.
Basketball is a fast and physically demanding sport.
Don Pasquale is an opera composed by Donizetti.
The last thing you do when you go on the Internet is log off.
A safety is a position in football.
If you want to have a physical exam then you should go to the hospital.
Marigold is an annual plant.
a nose is an organ for smelling.
You are likely to find bees in a swarm.
Becoming a licensed kangaroo harvester is an arduous task.
Something you might do while examining a thing is turn it over.
a love seat is a small couch.
a river is used for transportation of goods.
A porch is a good place to relax.
love would make you want to sing.
Dihybred-Cross is a Cross between individuals that involves the pairing of contrasting traits.
Somewhere a dog can be is under the bed.
A meteorite is a stone that comes from outer space.
The effect of punching someone is pain for them.
Bar-B-Queing is a way to grill over hot coals.
Somewhere life can be is on the surface of the Earth.
A musical scale is a different kind of scale from a balance.
You would complain about the state of the world because you want to change it.
Espresso is a strong type of coffee.
some magazines are about boats.
A poodle is a silly looking dog.
One of the things you do when you walk the dog is put a leash on the dog.
You are likely to find hair in a sink.
Something you find at a race track is a car.
Tofu is an acquired taste.
Stargate is a movie and a TV series.
A grouper is a tasty edible fish.
a guard can sound the alarm.
Legionnaire's disease is an infection spread by ventilation systems.
Something you find on the table is silverware.
emerald beauty arborvitae is a plant.
The effect of having a bath is to get clean.
bike is another word for bicycle.
a grill is used for barbecue.
A business card is a small piece of paper with your name and the name of your company.
You are likely to find a rosebush in the White House rose garden.
Eating in a restaurant is an expensive way to eat.
a plane ticket is used for travel.
Ice hockey is a violent game.
If you want to ski then you should buy some skis.
You can use a ball to play.
A child can share her toys.
You are likely to find plants in a forest.
An activity programmers can do is write software.
dancing is a great way to relieve tension.
relaxing is a way to reach enlightenment.
plungers unclog toilets.
an eye is for blinking.
sitting down requires something to sit on.
a person doesn't want to get lost.
You are likely to find a glue in school.
You are likely to find a star in outer space.
Something you need to do before you attend class is register for it.
Somewhere gum can be is under the table.
The effect of sleeping is getting rest.
Something that might happen while buying fresh fruits and vegetables is spending money.
a person wants wellness.
A chairperson can chair a meeting.
Something you find at a conference is people.
The last thing you do when you drive to work is park your car.
Something you find on the desk is letters.
If you want to find the truth then you should investigate.
Something that might happen as a consequence of working is stress.
The last thing you do when you wash clothes is dry them.
Somewhere a gambler can be is in a casino.
You are likely to find a monkey in books.
You are likely to find a hair clip in the bathroom.
Something that might happen while cooking dinner is it burns.
The last thing you do when you buy a shirt is pay.
a person wants lots of things.
a person doesn't want to vomit on themselves.
Somewhere a ring can be is at a jewelry store.
You are likely to find a weasel in the field.
You can use a manila folder to store documents.
Something you find on the porch is a chair.
a car can roll over.
Something you need to do before you cut your hair is go to the hairdresser.
needing a hard copy would make you want to print on the printer.
playing the piano requires being at the piano.
A submarine can travel underwater.
The effect of computing a sum is total.
If you want to forgive someone then you should be sincere.
You are likely to find a door with a lock in a bank.
Something you find in the corner is Dust.
Truth can be stranger than fiction.
answering questions is for giving information.
You are likely to find a sword in its sheath.
Something you need to do before you satisfy appetites with minimum effort is eat food.
You can use an eating place to eat food.
Something that might happen when you buy a shirt is you pay money for it.
a razor is used to cut.
One of the things you do when you play poker is ante up.
Something you find in a classroom is a blackboard.
Something you might do while having a rest is lie down.
Something you find in a suitcase is a suit.
beer is for drinking.
Somewhere a small dog can be is under the bed.
a car needs fuel.
People want to love each other.
You can use a toy soldier to play war.
If you want to become more clean then you should take a shower.
Dentures can bridge gaps in the teeth.
a person doesn't want to live in poverty.
doing the housework is for the maid.
You are likely to find a courthouse in a city.
Food goes into the mouth.
pounds are places.
people die in wars.
a pouch is used for carrying something with you.
If you want to drink alcohol then you should not drive at all.
You are likely to find dandruff shampoo in a pharmacy.
An animal is alive.
Something you find at the airport is check-in counter.
You would go to the hairdresser because your hair needs cut.
You can use a bass fiddle to make music.
Something you might do while washing clothes is put detergent in the washer.
You are likely to find a TV in the family room.
The effect of washing your hands is having clean hands.
You are likely to find dirty dishes in the kitchen sink.
Something you find in orbit is an astronaut.
Sometimes going to bed causes dream.
A person can read a book.
You are likely to find a razor in the bathroom.
smoke is dangerous.
The effect of doing housework is boredom.
silver is for Making into jewelry.
If you want to go to sleep then you should turn off the lights.
a bag can be made of paper.
going to the mall is for buying things.
You would run a marathon because you want to win.
The last thing you do when you play sports is take a shower.
Life is good.
There are 26 letters in the English alphabet.
Something you need to do before you have a party is clean the house.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to a performance is enjoyment.
An earring is a kind of jewelry.
a person wants to accomplish goals.
Sometimes riding a horse causes saddle sores.
a road is a paved surface designed for cars.
You are likely to find a skylight in the roof.
going to a party is for socializing.
riding a bicycle requires air in the tires.
Somewhere a diner can be is in a restaurant.
Something you find at a zoo is a zoo keeper.
A teacher can fail a student.
You are likely to find a trash container in a kitchen.
You would examine a thing because it interests you.
a bass fiddle is for music.
Somewhere a file can be is in a drawer.
waiting for someone requires timing.
An activity a waiter can do is serve a meal.
having friends over is for having fun.
A German Shepherd is a type of dog.
Something that might happen while contemplating is you make a decision.
friendship would make you want to surprise someone.
Gardening is a necessary activity to grow tomatoes.
Sometimes watching the evening news causes anger.
Something that might happen while eating breakfast is you drink coffee.
a hair salon is for getting hair cut.
velvet is soft.
pain would make you want to have an examination.
Sometimes washing dirt from between your toes causes clean toes.
emptying your bladder is for getting rid of toxins in the body.
a person doesn't want a broken arm.
Something that might happen while using a computer is it locks up.
Something you might do while improving yourself is reading.
You would dance the samba because you want to have fun.
The effect of using a television is entertainment.
Sometimes listening to the radio causes deafness.
a transit ticket is for a bus ride.
needing grapes would make you want to go to market.
a person doesn't want a problem.
ambition would make you want to open a business.
Something you might do while viewing a video is pay attention.
Something that might happen as a consequence of driving is moving.
a stone is a rock.
houses provide shelter.
friends would make you want to clean your room.
War is the opposite of peace.
Something that might happen when you make bread is kneading.
You can use a ticket booth to sell a ticket.
riding a horse requires training.
You can use a purse to carry your money.
If you want to read then you should open a book.
tire pumps are used to inflate bicycle tires.
a goal would make you want to stand up.
Something you find in a cupboard is cereal.
Something that might happen while waking up in the morning is opening your eyes.
a student can complete their homework.
You would buy presents for others because you want to have fun.
going to market is for buying food.
writing a letter is for communicating.
a drum is a percussion instrument.
Something that might happen while buying a beer is you get carded.
Eyes are complex organs.
having a shower is for washing hair.
A person can taste food.
Sometimes making friends causes conflict.
a bed is for Resting on.
If you want to drive a car then you should get the key.
A belt is for holding up pants.
buying Christmas presents is for fun.
Something you need to do before you program a computer is learn some programming language.
a wind instrument is used for making music.
If you want to smoke then you should light a cigarette.
Something you find in the basement is boxes.
Apples are good to eat.
You are likely to find a salad shaker in a kitchen.
a stringed instrument is for playing music.
a board game is used for passing time.
You are likely to find a rosebush in the landscape.
If you want to get warm then you should turn up the heat.
jumping at the chance is for taking advantage of opportunity.
Something you find at a synagogue is a Jewish person.
If you want to find a lost item then you should retrace your steps.
a clavichord is for making music.
You are likely to find a baseball field in a stadium.
Something that might happen as a consequence of bringing home some fish is having fish for dinner.
If you want to score a homer then you should hit the ball very hard.
a rook is piece of a chess set.
A cornea is part of an eye.
Something you might do while eating in a restaurant is order more food.
You are likely to find a disk in a computer.
Something you find at a hospital is a gurney.
a person doesn't want to miss out.
cows have four stomachs.
Something you might do while relaxing is close your eyes.
ponies are a kind of horse.
having an epileptic fit requires epilepsy.
Something you find at a library is information.
A foot is part of a body.
a mouth is used for eating.
stopping your bicycle is for getting off the bicycle.
swimming is for having fun.
If you want to give a gift then you should wrap it up.
You are likely to find a letter slot in the door.
The last thing you do when you go somewhere is arrive there.
Something that might happen while taking a phone call is picking up the phone.
crossing the street is for getting to the other side.
if you want to use a VCR then you should turn it on.
Something you need to do before you laugh at a joke is understand the joke.
You are likely to find a rosebush in an English garden.
Something that might happen when you go see a play is entertainment.
Something that might happen while fighting inflation is raising interest rates.
kissing is for Saying goodbye.
You would write a term paper because you want to pass your class.
a person doesn't want hassle.
You would see a movie because you want to be entertained.
If you want to ride a bike then you should put on your helmet.
Sometimes staying fit causes good health.
The glass is part of a window.
a memo pad is for Writing notes.
A Nissan is a car. Cars have tires.
Neptune is a planet.
Something that might happen while doing the housework is washing the dishes.
A private investigator can tail a suspect.
an Indian restaurant is for eating in.
Sometimes playing football causes a broken bone.
Something you need to do before you stand up is put your feet on the ground.
injustice would make you want to take the stand.
You would get wet because you want to play in the water.
If you want to talk with someone far away then you should use the telephone.
You can use a tapestry to cover a wall.
Something you find in the oven is a turkey.
Something you might do while buying a hamburger is order a coke.
If you want to buy a beer then you should go to the bar.
Something you might do while buying a shirt is try it on.
You are likely to find a stairwell in a building.
Something that might happen while improving your image is you smile.
a letter opener is used for opening envelopes.
Fire is combustion.
You would leave the line because you want to go home.
Something you find at school is a library.
If you want to release your energy then you should exercise.
Something that might happen while hanging out at the bar is drinking alcohol.
Sometimes fishing causes worms.
dentists can pull teeth.
Something you find at a store is a cash register.
Something that might happen when you awake is you have fun.
A locksmith can pick a lock.
A stamp pad has ink on it.
running in a marathon is for having fun.
Something that might happen as a consequence of making people laugh is you have fun too.
If you want to go to the store then you should make a list.
a tearoom is for drinking tea.
a stopwatch can time an event.
Sometimes paying the bills causes panic.
You can use a glass of water to quench your thirst.
One of the things you do when you wait for someone is look at your watch.
One of the things you do when you prove your physical endurance is run.
Something that might happen when you go somewhere is you have fun.
Something you find on a desktop is stapler.
You would go on the stage because you are an actor.
The Pope lives in the Vatican.
writing a program requires thinking.
Something you find at the movies is a sticky floor.
You are likely to find a store in your town.
Something you might do while walking is trip.
high prices would make you want to fight inflation.
You are likely to find a hairdresser chair in the salon.
Time is a measurement.
You would sit down because you want to rest.
You can use a trombone to make music.
A German shepherd is a kind of dog.
The effect of waging war is killing people.
Most tires are made of rubber.
a song is used for entertainment.
You would surprise someone because you want to scare them.
You are likely to find a gourmet shop in malls.
a bobby pin is used for picking locks.
a person doesn't want to be alienated.
You are likely to find a fungus on your feet.
If you want to tape a television show then you should program your VCR You are likely to find a changing room in stores.
A queen is a monarch.
Something you find in the closet is a vacuum.
getting in line requires finding the end of the line.
a pan is for frying food.
Something you find at a bowling alley is beer.
A squirrel can store nuts.
You are likely to find a linen closet in a hallway.
a person wants to be beautiful.
vegetarians do not eat meat.
Fruits are brightly colored.
You are likely to find a pencil sharpener in an office.
You are likely to find a typewriter key in a typewriter.
stalls are in bathrooms.
an apartment building is for people to live in.
You would have a nervous breakdown because you were stressed out.
Water can thin paint.
You would tickle because you want to laugh.
paying by check is for buying things.
paying by check requires a checking account.
Lemons are sour.
One of the things you do when you talk with someone far away is call them on the telephone.
Balloons float.
Something you find in orbit is the Earth.
You are likely to find ice in the Arctic.
You are likely to find a shark in a movie.
eating vegetables is for Health.
cops can tail a suspect.
You are likely to find clippers in a barber's shop.
books are fun to read.
You are likely to find a snake in bed with you.
a person wants presents.
You are likely to find a bat in belfry.
knives are made of metal.
Something you find on a desktop is a pencil.
A dust storm is a very strong wind that carries dust across the land.
Something that might happen while chatting with friends is gossip.
A baby is a very young person.
Something you might do while mailing a letter is put a stamp on it.
A viper is a poisonous snake.
You are likely to find a congregation in the church.
A disk is a round, flat object.
If you want to get in shape then you should work out.
A polygon is a many-sided figure with straight edges.
Something you find on the table is salt and pepper shakers.
A red sky is a good omen of good weather tomorrow.
You can use an entryway to enter.
You are likely to find a serving trolley in a restaurant.
A gold watch is a common gift at retirement parties.
Something that might happen when you kiss someone is fall in love.
Something you find at a zoo is animals in cages.
a cargo plane is a plane used for carrying cargo.
You are likely to find a fork in the road.
A paper page is an example of alliteration.
getting a good grade requires studying a lot.
Dunedin is a city in Otago in New Zealand.
Instant messenger is a popular chat program.
Bankruptcy is a transitional procedure.
knitting requires yarn.
A glue is a sticky substance used to stick items together.
You are likely to find a performance in a theater. 
A chainsaw is a big improvement to a handsaw.
You are likely to find a linen in a linen closet.
mint is a refreshing herb.
One of the things you do when you type is press keys on a keyboard.
A hill is a large mound of earth.
Something you might do while playing is laugh.
A revolver is an old-fashioned type of pistol.
You are likely to find a parking structure in the city.
An expressway is a road linking cities.
The effect of reproducing is children.
A ostrich is a silly-looking flightless bird.
an accommodation is used for living in.
An iceberg is a mountain of ice that floats in the sea.
making friends is for having someone to talk to.
Electronic mail is a communications tool of choice for business and personal use.
a subway is a kind of train that runs underground.
A pebble is a small, smooth stone.
You are likely to find a fungus in damp areas.
Field Hockey is a sport.
You are likely to find a horse in the circus.
a garage is a place to bring your car for repairs.
deserts are dry.
Owning a restaurant is a source of income for many people.
Exercise is an activity that requires effort.
Apple juice is a good thirst quencher.
An ear is a part of the body.
Boating is a popular sport.
You can use a document folder to store documents.
a bus is a kind of car.
humans use machines to do work.
Finding things is an important activity.
A handle is part of a door.
A ghost is a popular costume on Halloween. 
a person doesn't want their car to break down.
Hanukah is a Jewish holiday.
Something you might do while going into a coma is lose consciousness.
Viscosity is a measure of the ability of a fluid to flow through a reservoir.
driving can be dangerous.
Dawn is another name for sunrise.
Boats travel on water.
A collage is an artwork created by assembling and pasting a variety of materials to a two-dimensional surface.
orange juice is a good daily source of vitamin c.
A globe is a very simplified way to depict our planet.
Something you might do while eating a hamburger is put condiments on it.
writing is an important communication skill.
The last thing you do when you strike a match is light something.
cartography is also an art.
You are likely to find a bar service in hotel.
A lorry is a funny sounding word.
One of the things you do when you cash in is count your money.
an hourglass is an old way of telling time.
You are likely to find a subway platform in New York City.
setting a world record is a lot of work.
Something you might do while attending class is sleeping.
A type of literature is a play.
If you want to shop then you should go to the mall.
fancy dining is a very different experience than McDonald's. 
Roads are paths.
feather down is a good insulator.
Sailing is a way of living.
a saxophone is a tool used to make music.
Living grass is usually green.
astigmatism is a common visual problem.
a crescent wrench.
good food is a foundation for good health.
You are likely to find a barn in a farm.
Honeydew is a pale green melon.
Something you find in the purse is lipstick.
a discotheque is a club for dancing to recorded music.
You are likely to find a lizard in sand.
skiing is an athletic skill.
Something you find at work is a co-worker.
A membrane is a thin wall.
You would strike a match because you want to light a fire.
patriotism is a human emotion.
Spinach is a vegetable.
a buffet is a linear meal production system.
A person has one head.
Anarchy is an abstract concept.
If you want to act in a play then you should audition for it.
bark is a hard covering for a tree.
You are likely to find a shark in warm waters.
Science fiction is a genre that involves future technology.
Basketball and football are sports.
a floppy disk is a limited way of storing digital data.
seeing people play a game is for entertaining.
Data input accuracy is a problem for any computer system.
Floors are part of a building.
playing a harp is for making music.
Time off each week for clinical services is an accommodation for people with psychiatric disabilities.
a person wants a new car.
football is a human recreational activity.
burlap is for making sacks.
trophy is a prize given for achievement.
You are likely to find a dish in a kitchen.
A string is a group of characters that end in string terminator. 
You are likely to find a cable in computer.
brass is a heavy alloy.
Potatoes grow underground.
exercise is an activity to maintain health.
You are likely to find a bookstore in the city.
Irony is a difficult concept.
Something you might do while relaxing is reading.
Group dining is an important social activity.
You are likely to find a grape in a fruit basket.
A disco is a place to go party and dance.
plants grow towards the sun.
architecture is a combination of design and ergonomics.
Something you find under a bridge is a homeless person.
nylon is a common substance found in clothing.
An activity a doctor can do is diagnose illnesses.
Nepal is a country in Asia.
washing your clothes is for getting rid of unpleasant odors.
Corn on the cob is a favorite picnic dish.
a tank is a war machine that provides mobility for artillery.
openmind is a human attempt to create artificial intelligence.
You are likely to find a crab in crab salad.
A chapel is a place to pray.
A nectarine is a sweet, juicy fruit with smooth skin.
Nicaragua is a country in Latin America.
A stove can heat food..
A ring is an unbroken circle.
Baby animals are usually cute.
A crime is an act that is illegal. 
You are likely to find an organ in a body.
traveling abroad is a great experience.
tornadoes are very unpredictable.
A marriage document is a legal agreement.
salt can be used to cure meat.
Snapdragon is an annual plant.
Skiing is a winter sport.
a scale is an instrument used to measure weight.
If you want to wash your clothes then you should put your clothes in the washing machine.
A cross-stitch is a type of embroidery done with needle and thread.
a walkie-talkie is a communication device.
You are likely to find a faucet in a sink.
Library is a big storage of information.
Horses eat hay.
An equation is a mathematical statement.
Sometimes wrestling causes injury.
An armchair is a comfortable place to sit.
A bell rings.
Fatigue is an important factor in crashes.
A person doesn't want to get cancer.
A firewall is a barrier between your computer and the Internet.
Something you might do while getting a good grade is studying.
Nix Olympica is a light region on Mars.
A person can iron a shirt.
topsoil is a very valuable resource.
walking is a form of exercise.
MA is an abbreviation for Massachusetts.
You would pay cash because you want to avoid debt.
Orangina is an orange soda.
animals can move.
A weasel is a dishonest person.
Something you find at the corner of two streets is an intersection.
palm trees grow in warm places.
A deposit is a small monetary incentive to recycle.
One of the things you do when you program is compile.
Surfing the net is a way to get information from the net.
Stars are visible at night.
Burningman is an annual festival in Nevada.
people enjoy dancing.
a person wants good teachers.
You can use a call to talk.
Something you find at a school is lockers.
Greek is an human language.
You would go to a movie because you want entertainment.
Something you find in the loft is hay.
A person can row a boat.
You are likely to find plants in a state park.
spiders have eight legs.
a dog wants to eat.
You are likely to find steel in a car frame.
A dollar is money.
people like to play games.
You are likely to find a ficus in a jungle.
Something that might happen when you fiddle is you break something.
Los Angeles is a city that suffers from a lot of pollution.
One of the things you do when you have an asthma attack is wheeze.
Something you find at the park is a pond.
Something you find in the fridge is meat.
Something you need to do before you take a course is register for it.
a stamp pad holds ink.
You are likely to find a grape in a refrigerator. 
a person doesn't want cold coffee.
a bed sheet is used for sleeping on.
You are likely to find a hair dryer in the bathroom.
A uniform is a special outfit worn by members of a group.
You would read a book because you want to relax.
Something you find at a museum is an artifact.
The effect of going to a party is having fun.
If you want to stand in a queue then you should wait.
Paint can coat a surface.
Clothes Are Hung On Hangers.
Something that might happen as a consequence of mailing a letter is a reply.
sending flowers is a way of showing your feelings.
a battle is used for winning a war.
A chef can prepare food.
You would watch television because you are bored.
a Berger is a French arm chair without open arms.
You are likely to find a shower stall in the bathroom.
lights are used to illuminate.
You are likely to find jeans in a drawer.
Lightning is a flash of light in the sky caused by an electrical storm.
A pitcher can throw a fast ball.
Something you find at home is furniture.
taking the bus is for travel.
a flower is a part of a plant.
carbon is an element.
One of the things you do when you eat is chew your food.
Members of a jury might be sequestered.
A ukulele is a small instrument with four strings.
A Dentist can fix your teeth.
a level is a tool.
a movie is a film.
An oval is an egg-shaped figure.
Something you find at beach is tourists.
Something you need to do before you go to school is register.
some animals eat other animals.
A tie is a narrow band of fabric tied around the neck.
Something you find at a park is pigeons.
A boulevard is a large street.
One of the things you do when you go to work is ride a bicycle.
A pail is a container with a handle.
You would go to the store because you need to buy things.
cooking dinner is for feeding the family.
Entropy is a measure of the randomness of information.
Fish live in ponds.
wheat is a grain.
COBOL is a programming language.
royalty is an old concept that has no place in a modern world.
a key case is for storing a key.
dices are used to play games.
If you want to sit on a chair then you should bend your knees.
A cylinder is a figure with a long round body.
plates hold food.
Star Trek was a popular television show.
You can use clippers to trim a hedge.
A bun is a sweet roll.
a hunter can hunt a deer.
a person wants to be independent.
Something that might happen as a consequence of remembering something is forgetting it again.
A court is a group of humans convened in a designated place to administer justice.
Something you find under the table is table legs.
If you want to go for a swim then you should go to the swimming pool.
fighting war requires an enemy.
Mountain Dew is a beautiful thing.
a pub is for meeting with friends.
If you want to have a bath then you should get a bathtub.
green is a primary color. 
a beer mug is used for drinking.
Most sports have rules.
If you want to have a checkup then you should make an appointment.
a bacterium is a single cell organism.
Sometimes playing chess causes a headache.
You are likely to find a museum ticket in a pocket.
a handbag is used for carrying makeup.
A country is a geographic region and a political entity.
a person wants sunny days.
a senior is an old person.
Families are important.
Jockeys race horses.
You would meet interesting people because you want to learn something.
a book is a way to preserve the spoken word.
The effect of destroying your enemy is victory.
If you want to take the car for a drive then you should get the key.
The effect of writing a story is being an entertainer.
Color is a term used to describe the human perception of different wavelengths of light.
a barber comb is used for combing hair.
A bird that cannot fly is a flightless bird.
If you want to sit down then you should find a seat.
A hotel is a large building with many bedrooms.
Needlepoint is a hobby that requires much concentration.
Boating is a recreational activity.
the Indian Ocean is for fishing.
a fan is an electrical appliance.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having a haircut is short hair.
Something that might happen while going for a run is getting tired.
An activity a smoker can do is light a cigarette.
Ontario is a province in the country of Canada.
committing to memory requires concentration.
Shanghai is part of China.
Somewhere an elephant can be is in a circus.
art is always a subject of individual opinion.
a person doesn't want criticism.
a sword is for killing.
Algeria is an African country.
some fish can only live in salt water.
A lawn is a patch of grass in front of a house.
playing a guitar requires desire.
Liter is a metric measurement of liquid.
a grenade is a weapon.
finding the truth requires an open mind.
Lasagna is an Italian food that may be had for dinner.
Sometimes going to bed causes insomnia.
Rindge is a small town in New Hampshire.
Sometimes writing a letter causes action.
Camambert is a soft rich cheese.
competing is for sporting.
A youngster is a young person.
pride would make you want to tell many people about something.
morning glory is a flower.
The effect of getting some money from someone is collecting a debt.
A river is a large stream of water.
giving assistance requires the means.
APL is a computer programming language.
A star is a shape that has many points.
eating an apple requires teeth.
a tapestry is a rug and a picture.
If you want to socialize then you should meet some people.
One of the things you do when you perform is smile.
A banshee is a fairy attached to certain Irish families.
Something you find in a country is cities.
A table is a piece of furniture with a flat top and legs.
You are likely to find a pitcher mound in a baseball field.
paying taxes is a reality.
Germs are microorganisms that harm their hosts.
Singapore is a prosperous city-state.
You are likely to find a T-shirt in a dresser drawer.
A power screwdriver is a device for inserting and removing screws.
Something you find in a bus is a window.
Hong Kong is a city in China.
You would dance because you want to express yourself.
A bean-sidhe is another word for banshee.
You are likely to find a shopping bag in a mall.
A garage is a storage place for cars.
You are likely to find a cash bill in your own wallet.
A pentacle is a five-pointed star within a circle.
If you want to read a book then you should get comfortable.
A pillow case is a container for a pillow.
walking is exercise.
A Witch is a practitioner of the craft of magic. 
The first thing you do when you drive your car is get into your car.
Perl is a computer programming language.
Hydrogen is an element.
A Book of Shadows is a secret diary of magical purpose.
If you want to go to a sporting event then you should purchase tickets.
dancing is a social exercise.
Driving through mud would make you want to wash your car.
base ball is a game.
Something you might do while playing a game of chess is checkmate.
Velvet is a soft, fuzzy fabric.
doing the housework is for cleaning the house.
A bale fire is a fire lit for magical purposes.
Fish live in the sea.
a watch is a very old instrument.
food can be eaten.
A watch is a machine that shows the time.
If you want to go off strike then you should not go to work.
A hurricane is a very powerful tropical storm.
You are likely to find a barber shop in the city.
One type of fastener is a machine screw and a hex nut.
If you want to fiddle then you should have a violin.
car is another word for automobile.
You are likely to find a bass clarinet in A music store.
Mab is a queen of the fairies in Celtic lore.
a tabby cat is for a pet.
A mug is a drinking cup with a handle.
a person wants a good memory.
Skiing is a way to traverse snow.
If you want to have a haircut then you should go to the hairdresser.
wood is a strong building material.
Something you need to do before you wait on line is get in line.
Crashing a car is a good hobby.
a bottle of vodka is for getting drunk.
Eating vegetables is a way to eat right.
Something you might do while having lunch is drink.
Running is a lot of work.
If you want to think then you should think.
Porcelain is a good electrical insulator.
Something you find under your bed is a slipper.
Table tennis is a common family game.
a fillet is a way to prepare a fish for eating.
a merchant is for selling things.
giving gifts is a popular custom among many humans.
Anthrax is a disease caused by the organism bacillus anthracis.
A chattel is a movable possession.
One of the things you do when you take a break is relax.
MIT is a good school to go to do research.
a person doesn't want chicken pox.
Fencing is a vigorous sport.
helmets are used to protect your head.
a mailbox is a container for sending and receiving mail.
You are likely to find a fireplace in a living room.
A kettle is a vessel used to heat water.
Democracy is an abstract concept.
Something that might happen when you hear testimony is sitting on a jury.
Controversy is a lengthy disagreement over a matter of some importance.
A person doesn't want bad breath.
a laser is a thin beam of light used to burn things.
a wardrobe is a container for clothes.
If you want to have a physical examination then you should make an appointment.
A credit card wallet is a personal accessory used for storing credit cards.
Some mountains always have snow on their tops.
A pike is a weapon with a long handle.
Something you might do while crossing the street is get hit by a car.
Another name for a television station is a channel.
A man can tie a tie.
Ice hockey is a team sport.
Kids go to school.
A drill is a device used to create holes.
Dogs love to chew bones.
Kite flying is a form of relaxation beloved by Chinese.
Something you need to do before you cogitate is have a brain.
Cappuccino is an Italian invention.
An X can mark the spot.
Juice is a healthy drink.
pears are a type of fruit.
Singing is a human activity.
lemons taste sour.
A cyhraeth is a type of banshee in Celtic lore.
rubber ducks are usually yellow.
a place to store valuable objects is a safe.
shouting at the top of your voice is for making yourself heard above a roaring waterfall.
Smoking is a hazard to your health.
You are likely to find a person in cities.
a globe is a map of the world without distortion.
A coblynau is a mine spirit in Celtic lore.
Babies are young humans.
science fiction is a fun pastime.
You are likely to find a tissue holder in the bathroom.
West Virginia is a state.
A hypothesis is a tentative explanation for some phenomenon.
You are likely to find a koala in Australia. 
Star Trek is a classic of science fiction.
Penguins look like they are wearing tuxedos.
a mutt is another name for a dog which is a kind of pet.
A cook can prepare food.
Felt is a very soft kind of fabric.
bills come in the mail.
Ventolin is an asthma inhaler that you take to stop asthma attacks.
Something you find over the rainbow is Oz.
A queen's hat is a piece of history.
You are likely to find a beaver in a stream.
A crater is a large depression in the surface of an object.
If you want to learn about a subject then you should read about it.
African savanna is a rich ecosystem.
CDs can store music.
Free methane gas is a pollutant.
a hummingbird can hover.
Star Trek is a series of bad movies.
The clown fish is immune to anemone stings.
A tank is a large armored vehicle used in war and border defense.
humans have one nose.
Steel is an alloy of iron and other metals.
One of the things you do when you spend money is buy something.
An apartment is a place to live in.
acting in a play is for entertaining an audience.
A mine is a dark man made cave.
A pool is a man made construction that holds water.
Tool use is a sign of intelligence.
Something you find at a street corner is the intersection.
writing is a form of communication between people.
a rooster is a chicken.
a baby is a younger version of an adult.
Glassphalt is asphalt with shards of glass embedded into it.
Propeller-head is a word meaning nerd.
British Colombia is a Canadian province.
A cold faucet is always cold to the touch.
A raindrop is a tiny droplet of water.
Savoring is another word for enjoying.
recycling paper is a type of recycling program.
A horseshoe is a metal protector for a horse's hoof.
eating meals together is a social activity.
Jaffrey is a small town in New Hampshire.
One of the things you do when you cook a curry is adjust the spiciness to your liking.
A centipede is a small predatory animal with many legs.
a Clark's nutcracker is a bird that hides seeds to eat at a later time.
A snail is a small, slow animal with its own shell.
A rubber duck is a fun toy to play with in the bathtub.
A soap dish is a container that helps the bar of soap to dry without getting soggy on bottom.
Bird watching is a nice hobby.
Hockey is a pretty violent sport.
a batten is a stick that is put into a sail.
Birmingham is a city in the state of Alabama.
time is a relative concept.
plastic is a low cost way to package liquids and creams.
A yard is a unit of measurement equal to three feet.
Macbeth is a character in a famous play by Shakespeare.
any given sport is a minority pastime.
a child is a pre-pubescent human.
Linux is a combination of Unix and Windows.
A lifesaver is a safety device used on boats.
A bean-sidhe is a female fairy.
a euphemism is a substitution for an inappropriate word.
Thinking is a constant activity for the waking mind.
Alcohol is a fermented beverage.
Mount Saint Helens is a volcano.
Influenza is a viral disease.
An octahedron is a three-dimensional object.
Social interaction is a complex affair.
An egg timer is a device for keeping track of time while cooking.
One of the things you do when you answer questions is annoy people.
A teakettle is a kettle used for making tea.
micro credit is an economic model to help the poor.
a party is a social gathering with music and entertainment.
a stream is a small body of flowing water.
case is a legal term.
Hashem is a name for God in Jewish religions.
Ground is another name for soil.
A flat fee is a set fee for the whole case.
A letter opener is a convenient tool used for opening letters.
You can use a paper to write a letter.
A fiddle is a musical instrument.
A couch is a wide chair.
EverQuest is a multi-player, online game.
youth is a time for playing and having fun.
A tent is a place to sleep outside.
Paying for something with a check is a money transfer.
Bristol is a city in England.
Fear of jail is a deterrent to crime.
a PC is a smaller version of a mainframe computer.
a nickname for a diamond is a rock.
parking area is a synonym for parking lot.
velvet is a fabric with a soft surface that's attractive.
Seiza is a gesture of respect in a framework of custom.
A clutch bag is a bag with a clutch.
A membrane is a surface that separates two spaces.
Sometimes opening a gift causes happiness.
A modem is a device for converting serial information into tones that can be transmitted over telephone lines.
playing is a way to learn social skills.
mapping the universe is a massive task.
a bath shower is a combination of a bath and a shower.
MacWrite is a word processing application for the Macintosh.
a dog is a curious observer of mankind.
studying together is a good tactic for receiving a better grade.
Body building is a form of extreme exercise.
Hockey is a game people play on ice.
skiing is a great way to exercise.
Parental Generation is a strain obtained through self-pollination. 
Sometimes giving a gift causes happiness.
Mail is a form of communication.
Emailing a friend is also an errand.
A methanogen is an organism that produces methane during respiration.
moving is a change in coordinates.
Beauty in buildings is a balance between form and function.
Smoking is a definite health risk.
U2 is a good band.
A garbage truck is a special type of truck used for hauling garbage.
Singing a song is a great way to relieve stress.
Fear-Gorta is a solitary fairy in Celtic lore.
Alcyonius Nodus is a dark region on Mars.
An excavation is a way of mining ore.
Anggun is an Indonesian singer.
Something you might do while doing housework is dust the furniture.