People go to the beach for a vacation.
Something you might do while staying in bed is reading.
a shopping bag is used for carrying groceries.
The chemical symbol for hydrogen is H.
computers do not have brains.
a person doesn't want cavities.
doing some exercise is for health.
You are likely to find a handbag in a store.
Something you find at a party is food.
Something that might happen as a consequence of watering a plant is spilling water.
If you want to tell many people about something then you should write a book.
A statue is an artificial object that has the shape of a person or animal.
A teapot has a spout.
The effect of swimming is movement in water.
Something that might happen while winning a baseball game is you get more points.
Maps are used to find places.
Men wear hats.
Some toilets are unsanitary.
Sometimes reading to your children causes closeness.
You would pay cash because you want to avoid a paper trail.
getting in shape is for a well toned body.
a person wants oxygen.
Something you find on television is old movies.
You would work the box office because you want to make money.
books are knowledge.
Calvin and Hobbes is a cartoon.
Something that might happen when you take a shower is you choose a favorite soap.
a spring binder is for holding papers.
a person wants to avoid pain.
boredom would make you want to watch a film.
Something that might happen as a consequence of being involved in an accident is you make a police report.
Golf is played with clubs.
an auditorium is used for an assembly.
Crosses mark graves.
energy can equal mass.
If you want to reach an impasse then you should be stubborn.
apples are crisp.
If you want to go to sleep then you should lay down someplace.
an instructor can train a student.
Young dogs are called puppies.
a fork is for eating meat.
Great music would make you want to dance.
One of the things you do when you sleep is lie down.
timing is everything.
a person wants their team to win.
You would drive because you want to go somewhere.
If you want to ski then you should go to the mountains.
pool is a game of skill.
The last thing you do when you stand in a queue is get to the front of the line.
blue rug wiltoni juniper is a plant.
lava is hot.
A love of music would make you want to play the violin.
An activity an entrepreneur can do is open a business.
Something you find on the surface of the moon is a shadow.
Something you find in your computer is a virus.
having lunch is for taking a break.
Sometimes washing your car causes it to shine.
Something you might do while eating is bite.
the police can tail a suspect.
People can laugh at jokes.
A parabola is a conic section.
You are likely to find a cymbal in a drum set.
The first thing you do when you have a haircut is wash your hair.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in Mexico.
Something that might happen as a consequence of communicating is you make a point.
Something you find in the basement is mildew.
If you want to move a car then you should release the emergency break.
Something you find at the market is an onion.
Many things are made of plastic.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in Texas.
If you want to join the army then you should see the recruiter.
You are likely to find a checkbook holder in a pocket.
An activity a mediator can do is light a candle.
You are likely to find a small dog in Mexico.
Ferrets can bite.
Something you find over the rainbow is rain.
Something you might do while resting is prop up your feet.
You are likely to find a rose bush in a pot.
The first thing you do when you reach a tentative agreement is shake hands.
You are likely to find a crab in salad.
You are likely to find burlap in a potato shed.
You are likely to find an injury in a hockey game.
a book is used for study.
finding worms would make you want to go fishing.
Something that might happen while smoking is coughing.
a name is used for identification.
Sometimes going for a walk causes dogs to bark.
You are likely to find the sky in a painting.
Something you find in the oven is a pie.
People use the phone to make a call.
Hot is the opposite of cold.
A bulldozer can move dirt.
a globe is a model of the earth.
Something you find at the opera is curtains.
acting in a play requires other people.
a person wants peace in life.
leaves grow on plants.
You are likely to find a fungus in a rotten log.
nice boots would make you want to hike.
having a nervous breakdown requires stress.
You would listen because you want to hear.
Something you find at the farmer's market is carrots.
Something that might happen when you play a harp is you mess up.
Bad things can happen to anyone.
You are likely to find a potato in a vegetable garden.
The effect of creating something to help other people is gratitude.
Birds of a feather stick together.
One of the things you do when you eat lunch is chew.
You are likely to find opera glasses in an opera house.
You would impanel a jury because you want a headache.
Something that might happen when you bake a cake is you burn the cake.
You are likely to find a telephone kiosk in a city.
The effect of singing is joyousness.
An orchestra can make a big sound with many instruments.
A trial would make you want to hear testimony.
People can board a ship.
An accordion is a musical instrument.
Sometimes starting a fire causes an explosion.
You would cook dinner because you're hungry.
a root is part of a tooth.
You are likely to find a cup of coffee on a table.
Ideas can divide countries.
You would read the newspaper because you want to have something to do during breakfast.
smelling bad would make you want to bathe.
Something that might happen as a consequence of remembering a phone number is you call someone.
Something that might happen when you buy a hamburger is you get onions on it.
If you want to go to the pub then you should call a friend.
plungers are used to unplug toilets.
an acrylic is used for painting things.
Something that might happen as a consequence of watching the evening news is you hug your dog.
The last thing you do when you go to a restaurant is pay the bill.
If you want to wait on tables then you should become a waitress.
a ticket slot is for inserting tickets.
Sometimes contemplating causes time to pass.
playing ball requires a ball and people to play with it.
a box is for containing things.
Something that might happen while having fun is playing children's games.
Something you might do while playing ball is throw the ball far.
a corner cupboard is used for storage.
school buses transmit disease.
a matron can battle the bulge.
Something that might happen as a consequence of seeing a band is dancing.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in a refrigerator.
Baltimore is a city in Maryland. 
nights is the plural form of night.
You can use a bed sheet to cover a bed.
You are likely to find a volume in a set of encyclopedias.
there are many cacti in Arizona.
Humpty Dumpty was an egg.
Some people wear a uniform.
Something you need to do before you make friends is meet new people.
A glass can contain a liquid.
going to a party requires a free evening.
You are likely to find a balalaika in a music store.
Dallas is part of Texas.
Something you find in the belly of a whale is fish.
A canoe floats in water.
The first thing you do when you get fit is exercise.
People like to be with other people.
climbing a mountain is for challenge.
a person can receive a letter.
You are likely to find a cat in a cat box.
If you want to plan a vacation then you should talk to a travel agent.
a bottle is for pouring liquid from.
You would drive because you want to go to work.
a glue stick is for gluing paper.
Music would make you want to dance.
If you want to enjoy the day then you should avoid paid employment.
Something you might do while calculating things quickly is make an error.
a runway is for landing airplanes.
a computer is an electronic device.
If you want to listen to music then you should buy a CD. 
Something you might do while eating a hamburger is moo.
One of the things you do when you tell a story is speak.
atheists might be right.
Sometimes using a computer causes eye strain.
Something that might happen when you go to a party is you eat salsa.
Something that might happen while getting clean is showering.
You are likely to find paper in a notebook.
Something you might do while taking final exams is sweat.
The effect of laughing at a joke is smiling.
Ears can sense sound.
bicycles have 2 wheels.
The capital of Japan is Tokyo.
people pay for popcorn at the movies with spare change.
Something you might do while awaking is open your eyes.
Cats have hair. 
Cats often shed their hair. 
One of the physical characteristics of cats is their hair.
You are likely to find a large supermarket in a city.
Something that might happen while entertaining someone is you spend money.
Something that might happen when you bring in a verdict is someone goes to jail.
Something you find on the porch is a porch swing.
a person doesn't want a blister.
You would go on the stage because you want the attention.
eating breakfast in bed requires a tray.
Photos are saved for many generations.
Something you find under a tree is fallen leaves.
Sometimes instituting a civil action causes anger.
fishing is for relaxing.
A baby cat is a kitten. 
A baby human is a baby.
You would procreate because you want a child.
a pen is for holding animals.
Something you might do while growing vegetables is watering the vegetables.
a saucer is for flying.
Something that might happen as a consequence of setting a cup on a table is someone picks it up.
You would score a homer because you were playing baseball.
a book is used for education.
fish use gills to breathe.
A dragon is a mythological reptilian monster.
Something that might happen when you celebrate is others celebrate with you.
eating a cookie is for a treat.
One of the things you do when you open a gift is smile.
Something that might happen when you express information is you say too much.
You are likely to find a piece of coal in a Christmas stocking.
You are likely to find a BBQ in a backyard.
The effect of applying for a job is hope.
Somewhere an automobile can be is on a dealer lot.
A set is a collection of things.
Something you find at a demonstration is a picket sign.
signing a contract requires competence.
Something you find in a library is a restroom.
giving a clue requires knowing the answer.
Somewhere a spa can be is in the backyard.
You would debate politics because you want to pass a class.
All people eat.
Something you might do while having a physical exam is urinate in a cup.
Somewhere an automobile can be is on a racetrack.
girls would make you want to jump rope.
You can use a seat to relax.
having a physical examination is for staying healthy.
Something you need to do before you earn a living is get an education.
responsibility would make you want to bring in a verdict.
Somewhere a judge can be is in a courtroom.
You are likely to find a gazelle in a grassland of Africa.
You are likely to find a gazelle in Asia.
You are likely to find a tool in a tool shed. 
There are 50 states in the United States.
You are likely to find a seat in an airplane.
You are likely to find a dentist office in a town.
exercise can be fun.
a bureau is for storage.
Something you might do while falling is land.
Some people can be dangerous.
salt can be bad for you.
eating lunch requires time.
reading the newspaper is for being informed.
a person wants a happy marriage.
Something you might do while building a cathedral is lay brick.
Something you might do while making a phone call is roll your eyes.
Sometimes watching a movie causes fear.
You would obstruct justice because you want to be bad.
You are likely to find a fungus in a refrigerator. 
Velvet is smooth.
You are likely to find a shopping complex in a city.
love can fix many problems.
You are likely to find a sloth in a dictionary.
You can use a conference auditorium to meet.
You are likely to find a mound in a field.
Something you find under water is a diver.
The effect of sitting on a chair is resting your feet.
Something you find in your mouth is taste buds on your tongue.
paranoia would make you want to have an examination.
You are likely to find woods in the country.
a person can experience joy.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going for a haircut is a bad cut.
The last thing you do when you advance into battle is die.
Some metals reflect light.
If you want to lie then you should know the truth.
standing in line requires patience.
a lie is intentionally inaccurate information.
You are likely to find a laser in a laboratory.
a heat source is used for warmth.
The statement "Somewhere something can be is in Africa" is true because Africa is a place.
You can use a paper fastener to keep papers together.
a person wants a smart computer.
a proton has a positive electric charge.
a person doesn't want personal harm.
a platform railing is used for safety.
objects may be made of matter.
You are likely to find a religious tract in the library.
Houses can cost a lot.
One of the things you do when you go to the zoo is watch the monkeys.
You are likely to find a lizard in the grass.
going for a run is for preparing for a race.
You are likely to find a mouse in a research laboratory.
You can use the Moon to keep track of time.
Something that might happen as a consequence of seeing an exciting story is getting excited.
If you want to judge someone then you should be a judge.
waking up in the morning is for getting out of bed.
You can use soap to get clean.
rich people ride horses.
Something you find in the loft is a guest room.
Something you find at dinner is drinks.
You can use an apple to make a pie.
Electricity costs money.
Something you find in the Arctic is an iceberg.
The sun can brown your skin.
You can use snow to build a snowman.
Something that might happen while watching the evening news is you see commercials.
Some people are democrats.
Something you find at the farmer's market is corn on the cob.
You are likely to find a box in a warehouse.
Something you find on a pizza is red peppers.
Superman can fly.
You can use a reception desk to answer incoming calls.
You are likely to find a handbag in Wal-Mart.
a yard is used for measuring distance.
You are likely to find a small dog in New York.
taking the bus is for going to school.
a deer is an animal.
a person wants a healthy life.
a box office is for selling tickets.
a trash receptacle is for waste products.
The last thing you do when you take a bath is rinse off.
Raggedy Ann is a doll.
One of the things you do when you test your strength is flex your muscles.
sewing is for mending clothing.
Spinach is high in calcium.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having an asthma attack is death.
You are likely to find a cereal bowl in the cupboard.
a person doesn't want to miss the boat.
dogs and birds are both animals.
Metal is malleable.
You are likely to find a leader in the army.
The sky is often cloudy.
A person can hear music on the radio.
The first thing you do when you have a physical examination is take off your clothes.
You are likely to find a storm in the tropics.
Pain is bad.
Petunia is an annual plant.
Jazz is a type of music.
Something that might happen as a consequence of paying cash is having an empty wallet.
You are likely to find aliens in the Weekly World News.
Something you find in a plane is an engine.
fire can hurt a person.
Primrose is an annual plant.
You are likely to find a cigarette in an ashtray.
Something you find at a gallery opening is new artwork.
If you want to read a book then you should get a book.
Something you find at school is a teachers' lounge.
Something you find at an opera is a silk gown.
Something that might happen when you enjoy a film is fun.
You would take care of proposals because its your job.
Staples hold pieces of paper together.
Something that might happen when you play chess is loose a pawn.
The effect of waiting in line is getting to the front.
a person doesn't want to be homeless.
AI software can learn a few things.
Meditation soothes the mind.
Swiss cheese has holes.
You are likely to find bacon in a refrigerator. 
Something you find at a train station is baggage.
The highest peak in the world is Mount Everest.
You would bring in a verdict because you want to judge.
Something that might happen when you act in a play is you pretend.
a person wants to meet expectations.
Something you find at dinner is your family.
Something you find at a fraternity house is kegs.
A child can mind his parents.
Something you find at a museum is historical artifacts.
Something that might happen while walking the dog is a mosquito bites you.
If you want to paint a picture then you should find something to paint.
You are likely to find a national highway in the united states.
A train can run on railroad tracks.
there are fifty states in the United States of America.
buying a house is for making an investment.
Love means different things to different people.
You would see your favorite show because you want to be entertained.
A dog can wear a collar.
You would give a clue because you want to help someone.
mustang is a car model.
You are likely to find a machine in your house.
a pen is for drawing.
A coffee table can be in front of the couch.
A child can listen to a story.
You are likely to find a nose in a photograph of a person's face.
Something you find in the basement is boxes for storage.
Something you find at the end of a line is the end.
People need to drink water to live.
One of the things you do when you strike a match is rub the match head on the matchbox.
Something that might happen while taking the car for a drive is stopping at a red light.
You are likely to find a human in charge.
a dresser is used for holding clothes.
A stop sign has eight sides.
Something you find at a train station is passengers.
Something you find at an apartment is mailboxes.
Something you find on a desktop is a desk lamp.
A fence is a type of barrier.
The last thing you do when you play cards is put the cards away.
Something you might do while fiddling is annoy somebody.
You are likely to find a piano in an orchestra.
needing to do something would make you want to go somewhere.
Paper is thin.
You can use a bridge to cross a bay.
You can use a greengrocer to buy vegetables.
a launching platform is used for launching a space shuttle.
You are likely to find a snake in a pet shop.
You are likely to find a fox in a rural area.
Boredom is bad.
Something you find in orbit is satellites. 
A dog has two ears.
You are likely to find a ficus in the park.
a person wants to be valued.
a person doesn't want to be despised.
If you want to have an examination then you should make a doctor appointment.
You would have a checkup because you want perfect teeth.
You would go on the Internet because you want to look something up.
The last thing you do when you act in a play is take a bow.
A cucumber is a vegetable.
a sculpting gel is used for styling hair.
You can use an icebox to keep things cool.
Something you find in the oven is meat.
Dyslexics see letters backwards.
A cauliflower is a vegetable.
You are likely to find a paper fastener in an office.
You are likely to find a jar in a kitchen cupboard.
Something that might happen as a consequence of staying in bed is missing out.
Something you find at the repair shop is a monkey wrench.
Something you might do while leaving the line is make a phone call.
a game would make you want to compete.
a nerve is for sensing pain.
Something you find at the theater is a play.
Hot air balloons carry people.
You would fly in an airplane because you want to travel.
a sharp trader can corner the market.
An activity is an action.
Sometimes playing ball causes competition.
Something you find at a movie is ice cream.
a ventilation system blows fresh air.
Something you find at the front door is a lock.
a yard is an area of land.
getting fit requires exercise. 
Telephones are used for making phone calls.
Money does not buy happiness.
a cup contains a liquid.
The last thing you do when you score a homer is run across home plate.
No people live on the moon.
receiving a degree requires fulfilling the requirements.
If you want to entertain people then you should tell jokes.
Something you find in a cabinet is towels.
listening is for paying attention to things.
going to another place in the same city cheaply requires little effort.
Coca-Cola is a soft drink.
You are likely to find a man in a garage.
a teakettle is used for heating water.
You are likely to find a horse in equestrian competition.
Sometimes seeing a story causes you to cry.
a person wants to reproduce.
You are likely to find a necklace in a jewelry store.
a temple is for religion.
Causing trouble is not always a bad thing.
If you want to thank someone then you should do it quickly.
going to school requires taking the right bus.
people can leave the building.
a desire for social interaction would make you want to chat with friends.
You are likely to find a mug in a cabinet.
ostriches are animals.
Something you find on the fridge is a child's drawing.
Something that might happen when you play the violin is you make music.
cats can be eating cat food.
You are likely to find a textile in fabric stores.
If you want to decide a criminal's fate then you should be on a jury.
CNN is a television network.
Somewhere a table can be is in a furniture store.
You can use a staple remover to take out staples.
reading a book is for relaxing.
boat motors are very noisy.
The last thing you do when you stand in line is get to the front of the line.
Something you might do while getting a divorce is cry.
Something you find in the desk is a calendar.
men are male humans.
A tiger is an animal.
A cannon is a weapon.
You would impanel a jury because you want a trial.
Flags may be symbols of sovereign nations.
a person wants their achievements to be recognized.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in an eagle's nest.
Something you find on the lawn is weeds.
fruit is a source of vitamin C.
You would empty your bladder because you want relief.
books are printed on paper.
Something you find in a laboratory is test equipment.
examining a thing is for determining its nature.
Something you might do while flying a kite is run into the wind.
Telephones are for talking to people.
Hunger would make you want to eat a cookie.
SVT is an acronym for Ford's Special Vehicle Team.
breathing some fresh air is for getting oxygen.
You are likely to find a factory in an industrial area.
a boat can ship cargo.
Road rage is a serious public health problem.
singing is for entertainment.
Cats can please humans.
A fact is an actuality.
Reflexology is an holistic, non-invasive touch therapy.
Something you find at a soccer game is beer.
a lady wants diamonds.
B215 is a building in the vast nuclear reprocessing complex at Sellafield.
The first thing you do when you read to your children is choose a book.
You are likely to find a doctor office in Maine.
Something you might do while doing a crossword puzzle is learn new words.
Nauru is a tiny Pacific island nation.
You would study because you want to learn things.
If you want to eat vegetables then you should plant a garden.
Something that might happen while knitting is pricking your finger.
Queen Elizabeth is a figure head.
Something you might do while riding a bicycle is sneeze.
If you want to have a rest then you should go to bed.
Baseball is the American pastime.
Natchez is a town in Mississippi.
You would drive a car because you want to get somewhere quickly.
You are likely to find a round brush in the bathroom.
a mother can care for a baby.
a motorway is a wide, long, fast road.
Something you find at a bar is cigarette smoke.
a boxer can hurt his opponent.
One of the things you do when you visit a museum is look at the artwork.
Artemis is a goddess in mythology.
getting a divorce requires a marriage.
Something you find in a field is insects.
computers are used to process information.
War is a common event.
You would walk in the rain because you want to feel it.
Something that might happen when you hear testimony is you pay attention.
snoring requires your mouth to be open.
a cottage is a small house.
You are likely to find cash in a bank.
flowers can be many colors.
Something you find at a fraternity house is college students.
A forest is a group of many trees and plants.
Something you find at a home is some food.
You can use a return ticket to get home.
Sometimes conquering a nation causes the death of many women and children.
A table is a flat surface raised from the ground or floor by at least one leg at each corner. 
tables are usually square or rectangular.
You would reach an advantage because you want to be in a better position.
the children can listen to the music.
You would fight war because you want to win.
court is a system for making legal decisions.
You would walk because you want to change locations.
a statement is for detailing things.
You are likely to find a vending stand in a mall.
A fishing rod is a piece of equipment used by a sport fisherman.
liquid nitrogen is very cold.
a person doesn't want lice.
Billy Joel is a singer and writer of songs.
Something you find at a party is a guest.
You can use a frying pan to fry food.
The effect of watching television is relaxation.
A nose is a feature on the human face.
Black is the absence of color.
Something you might do while reading a magazine is relax.
You are likely to find a lady in church.
A beam is a thick rod used in buildings.
Most doors have locks.
a topaz is a precious stone.
Hats can be soft.
examining a thing is for understanding a thing.
You are likely to find a radiator in a car.
Honda is a brand of car.
cooking a curry requires curry.
getting onto the web is for reading the news.
Water polo is a game played in a swimming pool.
Garbage is a type of waste.
a community is in a city.
Most animals make sounds.
Grills are hot.
People eat cereal for breakfast.
You are likely to find a ferret in a bad mood.
a nightclub is a place to hang out with friends and meet new friends.
Something you might do while adding up numbers is add wrong.
You are likely to find a lake in the countryside.
One minute is equal to sixty seconds.
A harpsichord is a musical instrument.
One of the things you do when you meet girls is smile.
You are likely to find a dustbin in the kitchen.
Doctors treat sick people.
If you want to soak in a hot spring then you should go to a spa.
Something you find under a desk is a power strip.
You are likely to find a picnic basket in the park.
An extrovert is an unreserved or outgoing person.
writing a poem is for expressing yourself.
Vail is a town in Colorado.
a cruise is a long trip on a boat over water.
there are 365 days in a year.
A nautilus is a creature of the sea.
a person wants water.
The sky can be full of stars.
people need their minimum necessities of life.
spending money requires having money to spend.
Something you find at a restaurant is a patron.
If you want to look through a telescope then you should take the lens cover off.
going outside for an evening requires you to dress for the weather.
fishing requires water.
Crickets sing to find each other.
A barrel is a type of container.
basketball is a very active sport.
If you want to make a phone call then you should pick up the receiver.
birch is a kind of tree.
You are likely to find the bottom of the ocean in an ocean.
Dinner is created by a chef.
Something you find in the desk is stamps.
playing a game with your friends is used for entertainment.
If you want to stand in line then you should go shopping on Christmas eve.
A satellite can orbit around the Earth.
A fence can wall a yard.
when you are lost late at night in a strange city, a hotel is a good place to stay until the next day.
typing is for entering data.
Something you find at the top of a mountain is rocks.
Something you find in the kitchen is a spatula.
a telephone pole is used for suspending wires.
neighbors can borrow your tools.
children can surprise parents.
Something that might happen when you get drunk is you get arrested.
an umbrella folds up.
Sheep are mammals.
A katana is a sword.
people wear glasses to help them see.
Something you might do while going for a drive is have a car accident.
A jury can consider a verdict.
Sunflowers are a kind of flower.
You are likely to find a fireplace in a cabin.
Something you find on the surface of the moon is footprints.
a person wants goals.
You are likely to find a blanket on or in a house.
A terraced house has many levels.
sadness would make you want to listen to music.
Something you find in a building is cubicles.
You would surrender because you want peace.
You would go to an opera because you appreciate the opera.
times change.
weeding the garden requires distinguishing the weeds.
a gerbil is generally small.
Boxes can hold things.
teachers can explain math.
Germany is in Europe. 
The effect of honesty is trust.
All bulls are male.
You are not likely to find a body in a drawer.
Dogs like to eat people's food.
One of the things you do when you brainstorm is generate ideas.
a tapestry is for art.
a classroom is for learning.
Some flowers are red.
Something that might happen when you socialize is you make friends.
A soap dish holds soap.
People often drink champagne to celebrate. 
Champagne is a very sweet, highly overrated bubbly white wine.
thought is created by the mind.
cannibals eat people.
You are likely to find an explosive in a bomb.
Penguins are flightless aquatic birds found in Antarctica and some other frigid parts of the southern hemisphere.
One of the things you do when you ingest poison is die.
You are likely to find a gymnasium in a school.
You are likely to find a grape in the fruit store.
acting silly would make you want to act in a play.
ostriches are flightless birds.
Albatross is a bird.
The Statue of Liberty is green.
a prison is for punishment.
animals need water to live.
Something you find at a military base is an airplane.
You are likely to find a baseball field in a baseball stadium.
Indiana is part of the United States of America.
water is good to drink.
Many other things are blue.
Something you find under a tree is grass.
Utah is part of the United States of America.
You are likely to find a first violin in an orchestra.
diamonds are rare.
Sound travels in waves.
astronauts can journey to the moon.
horses eat oats.
a person wants safety. 
people watch television to learn things.
You are likely to find a net in a boat.
You are likely to find a continental quilt in a bedroom.
circles have 360 degrees.
some people think that competition is a bad thing.
You are likely to find a banjo in a band.
People adapt.
a person doesn't want rain on their wedding day.
love changes you.
The effect of taking a bath is to get wet.
You are likely to find a keyboard in an office.
O'Reilly is a publisher of books.
Something that might happen when you ride a bike is you turn the pedals.
If you want to make friends then you should meet people.
units of time are seconds.
If you want to knit then you should buy yarn.
Dogs can smell food.
Ice can be melting.
Something that might happen as a consequence of getting onto the web is finding information.
The last thing you do when you itch is scratch.
Something you find on a desktop is a telephone.
Something you find in a drawer is papers.
Tomatoes grow on a vine.
San Francisco has many hills.
Something you find at the market is fish.
The doctor is looking at a chart.
You can use a toilet to dispose of waste.
people can be generous.
Black coffee can be bitter.
A bin is a container.
Sometimes waking up in the morning causes someone to want to go back to sleep.
a person wants to feel special.
The statement "a house is used for living in" is true because a house is a type of dwelling.
If you want to cool off then you should turn on the air conditioner.
You are likely to find a shark in the open sea.
Something that might happen while watching a movie is being entertained.
Injury causes pain.
You are likely to find a linen in the closet.
If you want to entertain someone then you should be entertaining.
eating ice cream requires a spoon.
The last thing you do when you sleep is wake up.
Something you find at a party is loud music.
The effect of standing in a queue is being annoyed.
Hemoglobin is the pigment that colors blood.
Something you find at the supermarket is bread.
You can use wool to make yarn.
Something that might happen while analyzing something is an idea.
You are likely to find a mouse in abandoned houses.
Penguins are flightless waterfowl.
Sometimes taking a course causes graduation.
the sky is red at sunset.
wizards control magical forces.
A virus can cause a cold.
cashing in is for getting money.
dice are sometimes used for gambling.
You can use ice to reduce swelling.
Popeye is a cartoon.
taking an exam is for testing your knowledge.
You would see an exciting story because you want to be entertained.
You are likely to find a human in a train.
A dentist fills cavities.
A tent can be a shelter.
The world is mostly water.
The effect of going for a run is exercise.
People use binoculars to see things from a distance.
a person wants a future.
Riding a bicycle is good exercise.
a dictionary gives the meaning of words.
shiny things reflect light.
Something you find at the opera is a big fat tenor.
humans are omnivores.
Living things reproduce.
eating dinner is for satisfying hunger.
soaking in a hot spring is for healing.
Something you might do while taking a course is study.
You are likely to find a stage curtain in A THEATRE.
You are likely to find a roadway in any city.
If you want to drive a car then you should have a driving license.
You can use a rifle to shoot animals.
You would do a crossword puzzle because you want to be mentally challenged.
People eat cooked food.
Horses gallop.
a chair is furniture. 
seeing artifacts requires an appreciation.
Secret service agents can guard the President.
a person wants to breathe.
An author can write a story.
If you want to see exhibits then you should go to the museum. 
Tortoises are slow.
If you want to bake a cake then you should buy cake mix.
You are likely to find a cat in apartments. 
a person doesn't want anguish.
a man's home is his castle.
If you want to take finals then you should be in school.
You can use a mat to wipe your feet on.
Something you find at the supermarket is a cart.
a shampoo and conditioner are used to clean your hair.
Something you find at the top of a mountain is a wonderful view.
To understand the event "Sean drank a gallon of whole milk in one hour.", it is important to know that milk is a drink.
You are likely to find acne medication in a medicine cabinet.
a wrench is a useful tool.
California is a state in the USA.
An interesting subject would make you want to attend a lecture.
Sometimes taking a walk causes sore feet.
Something you find in the refrigerator is a ham.
If you want to pay cash then you should carry cash with you.
Something you find at a funeral is a coffin.
You are likely to find a wooden rod in a hardware store.
people can understand language.
Something you find at a park is a swing set.
communicating is for exchanging ideas.
Batters can hit the ball.
man are strong.
iron is heavy.
One of the things you do when you drive a car is watch the road.
Somewhere a virus can be is in a body.
a person doesn't want to be bothered.
The effect of getting to the front of the line is being first.
Something you might do while committing perjury is breaking the law.
Somewhere a chair can be is in the corner.
A teacher can teach kids.
If you want to learn a language then you should take a class.
a person doesn't want dirty clothes.
Something that might happen while getting wet is taking a shower.
You can use an instrument organ to play music.
You are likely to find a tabby cat in a home.
going to the hairdresser is for getting a haircut.
You would clean clothing because it gets dirty.
If you want to light a match then you should get the matchbox.
A person doesn't want to be lonely.
The first thing you do when you play tennis is get your racket.
Something you find on the street is pollution.
Some cats have golden fur.
Something you find in a casino is security guards.
going off strike is for going back to work.
Something you find at an airport is a newspaper stand.
You are likely to find a bee in a honeycomb.
fish can live in aquariums.
Tense in English grammar means time.
a doll is used for teaching medical personnel.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going into a coma is death.
a large supermarket is for buying groceries.
data requires processing to be useful.
You are likely to find an account book in an office.
a ring binder is for storing documents.
If you want to discover the truth then you should investigate the facts.
fall is a season.
Water sustains all life.
tea might be hot.
Mutations can occur in any cell in the body.
A problem would make you want to fix a computer.
Blue is the color of the sky.
If you want to attend a lecture then you should pay attention.
a card catalog is for organization of information.
Something you find at the gym is bodybuilders.
If you want to go to sleep then you should get in bed.
The first thing you do when you go for a haircut is sit in a chair.
Something that might happen while washing your hands is you kill germs.
Viruses are not living organisms.
The last thing you do when you bring home some fish is eat it.
thanking someone is for showing appreciation.
Something you find in a park is grass. 
a cereal bowl is used for holding cereal.
An activity a person can do is ride a bicycle.
The last thing you do when you surf the web is close your browser.
celebrating is for partying.
You would play tennis because it is fun.
Something that might happen while killing someone is remorse.
the Internet is a big set of computers.
an article in a newspaper is for reading.
One of the things you do when you get warm is you feel more comfortable.
If you want to lose consciousness then you should get drunk.
You would use a VCR because you want to record a show.
The effect of climbing a mountain is getting to the top.
folk is a kind of music.
Something you need to do before you go into a coma is have a brain injury.
music is a hobby.
The effect of eating vegetables is getting vitamins.
The first thing you do when you make friends is smile at them.
Life happens.
a galaxy is a group of stars.
Some truths are simple.
You are likely to find a passenger ticket in a train station.
A president can head a company.
Kin are relatives.
You would go on the Internet because you want to look for information.
British Columbia is part of Canada.
You are likely to find a trombone in a marching band.
a bloodhound is a kind of dog.
Something you find at a hockey game is hockey fans.
You would go to market because you want to buy something.
Something you find under a desk is a dust bunny.
Something you find in bed is bed bugs.
If you want to watch a movie then you should go to a theater.
a raspberry is a fruit.
You are likely to find a steak house in a city.
Something you find at work is a secretary.
Food is placed on top of a plate.
A child can learn things.
meeting a friend requires planning a place to meet.
work is a cooperative activity.
Something that might happen as a consequence of eating breakfast is being late for work.
Most houses have toilets.
Something that might happen when you play games is winning the game.
is a group of words.
Something you find in a pocket is Kleenex.
joining the army requires courage.
Children are playful.
a chair is a place.
Something that might happen while writing a story is brainstorming.
You can use a barn to store grain.
Smart people need intellectual stimulation.
Something you might do while eating breakfast in bed is eat toast.
Andromeda is a galaxy.
Something that might happen as a consequence of bathing is you use soap.
A child can anger a parent.
Knives can be used as weapons.
People can wear clothes of any color.
a bicycle is used for personal transport.
You would get onto the web because you want to find out information.
a soap dish is for bathroom decoration.
a duplex is for housing two families.
Something you find in a country is a flag.
Airplanes and moths are very different sizes.
The effect of reading a newspaper is learning current events.
Sometimes making a phone call causes the phone to ring.
The effect of playing sports is sweating.
Fish cannot speak.
badminton is a game played by two or four players.
trees and plants grow towards the sun.
Something that might happen when you fish is you get wet.
You are likely to find a feather in a cap.
If you want to climb then you should buy a rope.
The last thing you do when you follow a recipe is eat the result.
boredom would make you want to watch a TV show.
Something you might do while grooming is look in a mirror.
kissing requires a show of affection.
people play darts in bars.
If you want to learn about the world then you should read.
The effect of running a marathon is being tired.
Something that might happen as a consequence of helping someone is you break a nail.
Something that might happen while typing is you get a typo.
reading requires thought.
You are likely to find an article in a magazine in stores.
Something that might happen as a consequence of handling proposals is you get lots of diamond rings.
horseshoes is a game.
Sometimes driving to work causes a promotion.
Something you need to do before you fight inflation is study economics.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to a movie is you step in gum.
Sometimes jumping rope causes ankle sprain.
a man can captain a boat.
You would examine a thing because it is complex.
A maid can clean a room.
a lake is for water skiing.
The first thing you do when you live a life is being born.
you can use a large container to store things.
Something that might happen while leaving the line is you give up your place.
a boat is for water skiing.
people can bank their money.
The effect of buying something is getting it.
A community can value good morals.
You are likely to find a first class airplane seat in an airplane.
The first thing you do when you use a VCR is Put the tape in.
Sunglasses can protect your eyes against the glare of the sun.
Something you find in a restaurant is beer.
fiddling requires a fiddle and a fiddler.
If you want to write a program then you should have a computer.
Tritium is a heavy radioactive isotope of hydrogen.
watches help keep track of time.
Bolts are used to hold things together.
a stone is a small rock.
Nurnberg is a city in Germany.
taking final exams requires preparation.
You would work the box office because you want to sell tickets to people.
Something that might happen as a consequence of getting clean is feeling good.
Some wines are white.
Something that might happen as a consequence of seeing exhibits is appreciation.
thinking is for understanding.
If you want to advance into battle then you should wear your helmet.
Something you find in the refrigerator is grape juice.
A human body contains a skeleton.
You would go to the store because you want ice cream.
To understand the event "Susie works at a supermarket. Susie bagged some groceries.", it is important to know that A supermarket is a shop.
energy would make you want to work.
A seagull is a kind of bird.
Dungeons and Dragons is a role playing game.
Finland is a country.
Perchlorate is a toxic component of rocket fuel that damages thyroid function.
The effect of going off strike is going back to work.
Prime rib is a type of steak.
Hunger would make you want to eat in a restaurant.
PHP is free.
a puzzle is for entertainment.
You are likely to find a paper page in a notebook.
PHP is used to make dynamic web pages. 
If you want to walk around a lake then you should find a path.
The lid is part of a jar.
The last thing you do when you meet people is say goodbye.
Little Gem Arborvitae is a evergreen shrub.
Parents hold children.
Something you find on the street is painted lines.
A mirror is reflective.
A tourniquet is a dangerous first aid procedure.
If you want to have a physical examination then you should schedule an appointment with your doctor.
Afghanistan is an impoverished, landlocked Asian country.
One of the things you do when you tell a story is use different voices for the different characters.
Zinc is an essential element in the growth of all animals and plants.
Something that might happen while having a party is people drink beer.
An inning is a period of time within a game of cricket.
You would paint a picture because you want to be an artist.
Honey is a thick liquid.
If you want to sit down then you should get a chair.
Eating is a safe activity.
The last thing you do when you make a shopping list is put it in your purse.
Clothing is a common present.
a boy can notice a girl.
Fairness is a positive character trait.
If you want to play a game then you should have free time.
a river is a large flow of liquid water.
Something you find on a boat is wood.
Something you find at a war is angry soldiers.
metal is a conductor.
a person wants financial security.
Garbage is stuff that people do not want to keep.
Pain is a warning of damage to the body.
You are likely to find clutter in an office.
You are likely to find a file in an office.
Something that might happen when you find the truth is anger.
French toast are sweet.
You would program because it solves a problem.
Man can not fly.
Something that might happen when you eat in a restaurant is paying the bill.
A center passage is a passage at the center of a book.
Somewhere a cat can be is on the sofa.
A kitchenette is a small apartment.
frames are for pictures.
a lapus lazuli is a precious stone.
The last thing you do when you paint is clean up.
A channel is a specific instance of the class of channels.
canoes are small boats.
A plain is a large area of land covered by grass.
Something you need to do before you entertain people is clean your house.
A stone circle is a circle of standing stones of prehistoric origin.
Something you find at a gym is an athlete.
An atmosphere is a collection of gas.
Something you might do while conquering a nation is invade it.
A cliché is an overused expression that is boring.
You are likely to find a heart in someone's chest.
One of the things you do when you buy fresh fruits and vegetables is thump melons.
You are likely to find an eraser in a drawer.
Dvorak is a more efficient type of keyboard than qwerty but is less popular.
You would earn a living because you want money.
a living room is a place to relax.
Sometimes opening a bag of chips causes a spill.
Something that might happen as a consequence of watching television is you get fat.
If you want to decide a criminal's fate then you should be a judge.
a royal flush is an excellent hand in poker.
a tapestry is a rug and a picture.
Many leaves turn colors in the fall.
playing with children would make you want to jump rope.
Old people have seen many changes in the world.
drinking alcohol requires sensibility.
flowers are used as decorations.
The effect of smoking is lung disease.
Unhealthy eating habits can suppress hormones.
A man wants to live.
Something you need to do before you eat vegetables is cook them.
clothes can be folded.
animals have bones.
A painting is created by an artist.
A mansion is a very large house.
You would hack because you want information.
a fan can cool a room.
You are likely to find peaches in a supermarket.
Some trees lose their leaves in the fall.
a Wii is used for playing games.
The effect of having a shower is getting clean.
You are likely to find fidelity in church.
fortune cookies contain messages.
A model is an idealized form.
Solitaire is a card game played by one person.
Something you find on a plate is steak.
Something that might happen while playing a guitar is you play a song.
time is not a kind of activity.
music is part of art.
houses come in all shapes and sizes.
A tuning slide is part of a trumpet.
Sometimes going for a walk causes you to exercise.
One of the things you do when you learn is create new synaptic connections.
Mutts is the plural form of mutt.
smallpox is a kind of disease.
If you want to play hockey then you should get a hockey stick.
Most people can tie a knot.
a heater is used for heating.
You are likely to find a lizard in the woods.
The first thing you do when you see is open your eyes.
Something that might happen while shopping is meeting friends.
Seeing someone hurt would make you want to give assistance.
people need to drink water.
Something that might happen when you calculate things quickly is an error.
Children love their parents.
Something you find in church is holy water.
If you want to drive a car then you should put it into gear.
Something that might happen while telling a story is you stretch your imagination.
adding up numbers requires a calculator.
You are likely to find a puzzle in a closet.
If you want to play then you should have a game to play.
going somewhere is for getting somewhere.
talking requires a voice.
a person wants to get a good job.
Something you find at a show is spectators.
The effect of traveling is seeing new places.
a person wants to be safe.
a person wants a successful career.
Something you might do while taking pictures is focus your camera.
a swimming pool is for diving.
Pollutants cause pollution.
a person wants answers to their questions.
a bicycle storage area is for storing bicycles in.
Corporations are companies.
Fruits are nutritious.
You are likely to find a hallway in an office building.
a bicycle storage area is for protecting bicycles from bad weather.
If you want to fight inflation then you should raise interest rates.
a laser is used for reading a compact disc.
Something you might do while going to the zoo is take pictures of animals.
One of the things you do when you buy something for a loved one is pay.
You can use paper to wrap a present.
You are likely to find a marmoset in France. 
Something that might happen as a consequence of preparing for a vote is voter registration. 
If you want to pray then you should first believe in God.
You are likely to find an eraser in a pencil.
cannibals can be an interesting subject of study.
making a phone call is for making appointments.
nice weather would make you want to play tennis.
water can quench your thirst.
a token is used for a subway ride.
Something you need to do before you play tennis is get a racket.
Stones are hard.
You are likely to find a linen chest in the bathroom.
Something that might happen as a consequence of getting to the front of the line is it's your turn.
A car can pass a bus.
traveling requires a valid passport.
You are likely to find a salt shaker in a restaurant. 
Meat is high in protein.
Something you need to do before you become a scuba diver is take a class.
DNA is used to identify people.
Being fat would make you want to go jogging.
You are likely to find a chair in the kitchen.
Something you find on the fridge is a note.
Mexico is a country.
Something that might happen when you forget something is you scratch your head.
Something you need to do before you do housework is stop procrastinating.
Something that might happen while remembering something is stopping to think.
a person wants to be secure.
The theramin is an electronic musical instrument.
people keep money in a wallet.
Something you find at a store is a product.
Sometimes catching mumps causes death.
Some flowers are blue.
You are likely to find a linen chest in a bedroom.
Meditation is a form of relaxation designed to contemplate inner awareness of feelings, problem solving, and perhaps even communication with God.
a bank can charge interest.
washing your hands requires water.
time flies.
You are likely to find ice cubes in a freezer.
a person wants to be successful. 
You are likely to find a cat in a living room.
riding a horse is for pleasure.
a car park is used for storing cars.
Marbles are round.
vehicles move.
You would play hockey because you want to have fun.
dogs can corner cats.
Greed would make you want to lie.
If you want to write a program then you should have computer knowledge.
You would sew because your clothes are ripped.
people can race cars.
You are likely to find a doorway in a building.
You would buy a hamburger because you want fast food.
If you want to pray then you should believe.
You would express information because you want to teach somebody.
a restaurant table is for eating your lunch at.
Something you find at the theater is tickets.
Something that might happen when you agree with someone is agreement.
You are likely to find a bee in Texas.
If you want to eat breakfast then you should eat in the morning.
You are likely to find a handle in a door.
Sometimes howling with laughter causes side cramps.
You are likely to find a bus in a bus station.
A virus can destroy cells.
You are likely to find denim in a pair of jeans.
You would kill people because you are defending yourself.
A soprano can sing an aria.
hot coals can cook food.
You are likely to find a coffee cup in the dishwasher. 
The Bible contains many contradictions.
The effect of jumping at the chance is accepting opportunity.
Something you find in a quandary is your own indecision.
Something that might happen when you paint a picture is you use a brush.
a pacifier can quiet a baby.
Sometimes getting a contract causes celebration.
Something that might happen when you institute a civil action is you pay the filing fee.
starting a fire requires a match.
Marsupials are mammals.
Something you might do while going to bed is take off your clothes.
steak is delicious.
scoring a homer is for winning the game.
Something that might happen when you are in charge of a project is you panic.
You would work the box office because it is your job.
You are likely to find a small dog in the backyard.
stopping standing in it requires stepping out of it.
You would get wet because it is raining.
Sometimes reaching an impasse causes you to stop.
Something you find at beach is a beach umbrella.
The heart is an essential organ.
checking vital signs requires knowledge.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to get a haircut is getting shorter hair.
Sometimes religion causes war.
Something you might do while buying a hamburger is buy fries.
marble is a type of stone.
Something that might happen while memorizing is reading.
You are likely to find a department store in a city.
Something you find at a bus depot is luggage.
Sometimes taking a bath causes you to become clean.
Sometimes eating lunch causes indigestion.
Something that might happen as a consequence of punishing someone is anger.
Something you find in a car is a dashboard.
Americans are people.
If you want to teach other people then you should teach yourself.
a person can believe in god.
Something you might do while paying cash is open your wallet.
a person wants to feel love.
You would take the bus because you want to get somewhere.
If you want to drive then you should have a driving license.
Something that might happen as a consequence of fishing is death for the fish.
If you want to play soccer then you should get a soccer ball.
Something that might happen as a consequence of losing consciousness is injury.
a sale is for getting rid of excess goods.
steam is a gas.
glass is made from sand.
kissing is for lovers.
You would jump rope because it is fun.
A cover can hide things.
a shotgun is a kind of gun.
telling many people about something is for spreading gossip.
A salad bowl can be used to eat salad from.
Something you need to do before you fall is regain your balance.
smoking is for relaxation.
A glass is made of glass.
You are likely to find an anemone in the Gulf of Mexico.
One of the things you do when you play poker is cut the deck.
a person wants a nice home.
procreation is for survival of a species.
One of the things you do when you win a baseball game is smile.
programs is the plural of program.
Something that might happen while attending a meeting is you learn something.
Something you might do while washing your clothes is use detergent.
A person can deal cards.
Something you find at the dentist is patients.
Something that might happen while playing the violin is music being produced.
Somewhere a policeman can be is at the donut shop.
You are likely to find a marsh in a forest.
You are likely to find a drawer in a kitchen.
gambling can be an addiction.
Lead is a heavy metal.
a person doesn't want to be yelled at.
lying is for deceit.
One of the things you do when you commit perjury is commit a crime.
You would have friends over because you enjoy being with them.
Sometimes going for a swim causes you to be wet.
Something you might do while stopping your bicycle is pressing of the brakes.
An army can storm a castle.
You are likely to find a forest in South America.
an adjustable wrench is a useful tool.
You are likely to find a president in a government.
Sometimes passing a class causes joy.
George Washington was the first president of the United States of America.
Nike makes shoes for running.
conquering your opponent is for being victorious.
You are likely to find a snake in Oklahoma.
The effect of pretending is play.
The television studio is part of the building.
You are likely to find a salad bowl in a restaurant.
Sometimes skating causes injuries.
Something you find at the movies is a moviegoer.
Baghdad is part of Iraq.
You are likely to find a watch in a watch store.
Americans eat a lot of hot dogs.
The effect of making bread is bread.
Fireworks are explosions.
Something you find in Las Vegas is a casino.
Sometimes buying products causes bankruptcy.
viewing a film at home is for entertaining yourself.
One of the things you do when you go off strike is go to work.
Something you find on the street is leaves.
You are likely to find a mouse in a small hole.
schools are good places to learn.
Something you find on television is junk.
One of the things you do when you grow vegetables is plant a garden.
a ledger is a book.
Bats eat mosquitoes.
One of the things you do when you wait for someone is check the time.
highways are for cars.
is a punishment meant to restore justice.
You are likely to find a merchant in Venice The effect of exercising is losing weight.
An epidemiologist studies the spread of diseases.
If you want to socialize then you should find a group of people.
a cook can brown chicken.
Something you find at a hospital is emergency care.
guns can fire bullets to targets.
You are likely to find a robot in a laboratory.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying products is debt.
a dog wants affection.
Something you find in the corner is a dunce.
printing on the printer requires paper.
A salt shaker is used for salting food.
flying a kite is for competition.
Leisure should be taken very seriously.
You are likely to find a hide-a-bed in a living room.
If you want to advance into battle then you should have an army.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying presents is consumer debt.
Something you find on the porch is a doormat.
You are likely to find a gate in a garden.
Something you find in a field is daisies.
You are likely to find fabric in clothing.
scalpels are used for surgery.
Something that might happen as a consequence of remembering something is learning.
If you want to play tennis then you should strengthen your forearm.
You are likely to find a curtain in a house.
a bus shelter is for waiting for a bus.
You are likely to find speakers in headphones.
You are likely to find a basket of laundry in the laundry room.
Something you find on the ground is soil.
safety pins are used to fasten things together.
Something that might happen as a consequence of talking is a conversation.
chewing your food is for avoiding choking.
a T-shirt is used for covering nipples.
mammals die.
The effect of using a computer is life becomes easier.
You would stand up because you want to go somewhere.
You are likely to find a clothing store changing room in the mall.
children are creative.
A witness can report a crime.
If you want to urinate then you should use a urinal.
A subway is a form of public transportation.
You are likely to find a fungus in dark, moist areas.
Something you might do while falling is open your parachute.
a city hall is for paying traffic tickets.
Something you find at the supermarket is a checkout line.
Something you need to do before you improve yourself is take a bath.
If you want to cook dinner then you should go into the kitchen.
Something you find on the rug is a table.
tin is a metal.
Something that might happen when you buy a hamburger is ask for ketchup.
A kid attends school.
God is an assumption.
The medical field of study for a bacteriologist is bacteria.
You can use denim to make clothing.
Something you find at fairgrounds is horse races.
The effect of adding up numbers is getting the sum.
You are likely to find a token in an arcade.
having a picture to hang would make you want to drill a hole.
A person does not want a cramp.
You are likely to find burlap in a barn.
two people can agree with each other.
One of the things you do when you drill a hole is make a hole.
You are likely to find an apple tree in a valley.
You would take an exam because you want to pass a course.
Sometimes building a cathedral causes huge expenses.
friends are there through thick and thin.
answering questions is for suspects.
One of the things you do when you have an examination is Ask questions.
If you want to decide a criminal's fate then you should sit on a jury.
Something that might happen while preparing for a vote is lots of reading.
You are likely to find a snake in a hole in the ground.
Something you might do while buying a shirt is check the buttons.
You are likely to find a sale in a store.
Sometimes conducting a trial causes stress.
Sometimes pleasing your parents causes peace in the home.
Sometimes writing a letter causes an exchange of information.
Something you find in the mail box is letters from friends.
You would write a letter because you want to communicate an idea.
The effect of using a VCR is that it's difficult.
Sometimes passing your university exams causes excitement.
If you want to examine a thing then you should look at it closely.
Saws can cut you.
Something you need to do before you pay by credit card is get out your credit card.
looking for lost keys would make you want to walk around a lake.
A globe is a map of a planet in the shape of a sphere.
Something that might happen when you relax is you breathe deeply.
a person wants to be forgiven for his sins.
CFR is an acronym for Council on Foreign Relations.
The effect of receiving a degree is pride in yourself.
playing a game is for learning.
satisfying appetites with minimum effort requires junk food.
Science is a rational enterprise that reveals our true place in the Universe.
Something you find under a bridge is a shadow.
Something that might happen when you think is your head hurts.
Something that might happen while analyzing something is you look at details.
sand in your underwear is a problem.
Life is full of surprises.
A banjo is a stringed instrument. 
Something that might happen as a consequence of cooking is you get a yummy meal.
Something that might happen when you make a shopping list is you still forget something. Sometimes examining a thing causes intimate knowledge.
Nolan Ryan is a famous baseball pitcher.
You would look through a telescope because you want to see the moon.
Something that might happen while attending a rock concert is you listen to music.
cleaning the house requires a sponge.
corn is a staple food in many parts of the world.
ambition would make you want to study.
Something you might do while viewing a video is pause it.
You are likely to find a shed in a back yard.
A red poppy is a symbol of remembrance of the victims of war.
Something you find on a desk is an inbox.
Something you find at the opera is musicians.
Poodles are a type of dog.
Something that might happen when you go on a vacation is you read books.
Something that might happen when you take in a film is you see it.
A cat can sun itself.
a wall is for dividing countries.
A gambler can roll the dice.
Sometimes leaving the line causes utter chaos.
You would catch mumps because you want sympathy from your evil step mom.
Aging is a side effect of the natural safeguards that protect us from cancer.
Clark Kent can double as superman.
Something you might do while seeing your idea become reality is grin.
Something that might happen while cutting your hair is you drop the scissors.
Something that might happen while preparing for a vote is you inform the voters.
Something you find in the ocean is a conch. 
wanting to pass would make you want to take final exams.
mothers take care of their babies.
Microsoft is producing software.
Sometimes creating an idea causes pride.
Something you might find in a freezer is cold air.
Malaysia is a country in Southeast Asia.
You can use a bus stop to pick up passengers.
Sometimes going to a movie causes disappointment.
Something that might happen as a consequence of running is falling down.
A planet is a large collection of matter.
Something that might happen while discovering the truth is shock and dismay.
Something that might happen as a consequence of fiddling is people start dancing.
Sometimes lying causes doubt.
dark green spreader yew is a plant.
viewing a video requires a TV. 
good conversation would make you want to talk with someone far away.
You can use a dining room table to serve dinner.
A Slinky is a toy.
getting something is for satisfying needs.
Something you might do while going public is sell shares.
You would compute a sum because you want the answer.
a village is a group of dwellings that form a small community.
a muscle is for eating.
Something that might happen while going to the pub is you drink hooch.
using a calculator is for subtraction.
A traffic artery is a major highway.
writing a program requires knowledge.
dental floss is for removing plaque.
playing the piano is for having fun.
a son is a male kid of his parents.
You can use a secretary to answer phones.
If you want to chew your food then you should masticate.
A car is a manufactured product.
religion is a body of social rules that have authority over society.
Sometimes breathing causes living.
If you want to cut your hair then you should pay a barber.
Paxil can free someone of depression.
toilets are dirty.
You can use a gun to shoot bullets.
Sometimes analyzing something causes a headache.
A pike is a fish.
a lie is a false statement.
thanking someone is for expressing appreciation.
a counter is for a store.
water can be dangerous.
A window is a hole in the wall of a building. It is usually rectangular in shape.
A computer would not eat a banana.
Something that might happen as a consequence of chopping firewood is your ax becomes dull.
a person wants other people to be polite.
You are likely to find files in a folder.
If you want to handle proposals then you should read them.
Something you find at a bookstore is a salesperson.
Exercise burns calories.
If you want to play the violin then you should take violin lessons.
writing a story is for expressing an idea.
Something that might happen when you ride a horse is it runs.
A noon whistle would make you want to have lunch.
baseball is an American tradition.
Something that might happen as a consequence of communicating is exchanging ideas.
Something that might happen when you follow a recipe is you make a cake.
You would institute a civil action because you want to sue someone.
There are more cats in the world than governments.
A salesman can close a deal.
a person wants low crime.
Montana is part of the United States of America.
You are likely to find a small dog in a basket.
Something that might happen while diminishing your own hunger is you get fat.
The last thing you do when you spend money is get receipts.
a runner can trip over.
spending money is for necessities.
Something that might happen as a consequence of telling a story is they live happily ever after.
a fireplace is for warmth.
a gerbil can bite.
Sometimes getting something causes ownership.
One of the things you do when you get fit is lift weights.
You are likely to find a girl in a store.
Some flowers grow in gardens.
If you want to chew your food then you should use your mouth.
chopping firewood is for getting some exercise.
Apples come in many varieties.
having a nervous breakdown requires emotional instability.
If you want to bake a cake then you should buy the ingredients. 
You are likely to find poverty in the USA.
signing a contract requires something to write with.
A cannon is used for killing people.
Something you find at a fast-food restaurant is napkins.
beer can make you drunk.
Something you find at a state park is arches.
a train strike would make you want to drive to work.
You are likely to find a kitchen utensil in the sink.
You are likely to find a bone in an animal.
Fans blow air.
Something you find at a fraternity house is books.
Sometimes doing the housework causes back pain.
You are likely to find a clavichord in a museum.
the Internet is a network.
Something that might happen while buying a hamburger is you also get a coke.
The first thing you do when you read a book is open it.
You are likely to find a fire extinguisher in a house.
You are likely to find notes in a notebook.
Sometimes waiting tables causes flirting.
an instrument triangle is for making noise.
You are likely to find a snake in the tropical forest.
Animals can sense danger.
You are likely to find a locker room in a gymnasium.
a great sale would make you want to buy a shirt.
You would wait on tables because it's a source of income.
Sometimes jumping at the chance causes opportunity to be seized.
Something that might happen while forgiving someone is emotional healing.
If you want to eat healthily then you should learn about nutrition.
You are likely to find a chess bishop in a chess set.
You are likely to find a high rise in a city.
lying requires deceit.
children like to hear a story.
living is for enjoyment.
a soap is used for a bath.
Something that might happen while seeing a play is you get emotional.
The birth of a child is an important event in a person's life.
boredom would make you want to go to a film.
Plants require water to live.
Sometimes going to a sporting event causes anger.
Something you find at a state park is a bench.
You are likely to find a lizard in the crack of a wall.
a carpet is used for flooring.
happiness is bliss.
You are likely to find a sheet of paper in a notebook.
Something you might do while spending money is compare prices.
You are likely to find a revolving door in the lobby.
You would play baseball because its fun.
You can use a yo-yo to play.
Something that might happen when you sell your new book is you become famous.
Tires are black.
baggage is for taking things on a trip.
If you want to sign a contract then you should use a pen.
Something that might happen as a consequence of sleeping is you drool.
You are likely to find a chess king in a chess set.
You can use a hat to be in uniform.
Something you might do while snoring is dream.
Something you might do while proposing to a woman is beg.
lamps are used to provide light.
thinking is for reasoning.
a car can pass another car.
The effect of memorizing is recital.
Reading books is a pleasant human activity.
Something that might happen when you listen to the radio is hearing the news.
You would pass your university exams because you want to graduate.
One of the things you do when you hike is get tired.
Sometimes hearing music causes joy.
a knife is used for prying things open.
a correction fluid is used for correcting errors.
An ogre is a large cruel man.
Taxis are a kind of car.
a child can anger his mother.
viewing a video is for fun.
lighting a fire requires combustible material.
car seats are comfortable.
Something that might happen while going jogging is tripping on a tree root.
You are likely to find a snake in long grass.
Something you find in a bedroom is dust.
The last thing you do when you read a magazine is close the magazine.
going to market is for grocery shopping.
going to a Laundromat is for washing and drying clothes.
a guitar is used for music.
Something that might happen when you maintain good health is long life.
listening to music requires using ears.
If you want to read a letter then you should open it.
If you want to catch mumps then you should find someone with the mumps.
a mug is used for coffee.
visiting a museum is for fun.
If you want to swim then you should find a body of water.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in Colorado.
A hairpin holds hair in place.
a knife is used for carving wood.
If you want to send e-mail then you should type the message.
seeing an exciting story requires you to have fun.
A mouth has lips.
Somewhere paperwork can be is in the office building.
You are likely to find a room in a school.
going for a drive is for passing time.
Something you find in the mail box is advertisements.
Somewhere a hole can be is in the ground.
a person wants material things.
Something that might happen when you grow vegetables is you eat them.
Something that might happen while knitting is making a sweater.
You would have food because you were hungry.
Something you find on the lawn is dew in the early morning.
Subways are used for travel.
Zucchini are a kind of vegetables.
Something you need to do before you go to the mall is get your money.
An unicorn is a make-believe creature.
Something you find at a soccer game is a field.
snow is commonly found on mountains.
You are likely to find a fastener binder in a hardware store.
You can use a clarinet to play music.
You are likely to find a loft in a barn.
If you want to watch a movie then you should sit down.
Latin is a human language.
a desk drawer is used for papers.
You can use a percussion instrument to play music.
surprising someone requires secrecy.
The last thing you do when you ride a horse is cool him out.
You would swim because you want to avoid drowning.
going to a film is for watching a movie.
Something you find in a breadbox is a loaf of bread.
Families usually live together.
A blanket can warm a person.
Sometimes applying for a job causes anxiety.
You can use a toy ball to play with your dog.
Something that might happen when you go on a vacation is you buy film.
You are likely to find a potato in the grocery store.
A painting could be used to decorate a room.
taking final exams is for completing a course.
Something you find in outer space is a meteor.
Something you find at a neighbor's house is a bed.
a person wants a caregiver.
You are likely to find a foyer in a building.
Something you find on the windowsill is dead bugs.
You are likely to find a toy balloon in a birthday party.
The Internet is in a state of consensus anarchy.
If you want to program then you should start with a design.
Something you find at the supermarket is a jar of pickles.
Many foods that people cook can be called dishes.
a class is a group of students.
You are likely to find a ficus in the ground.
An athlete can break a record.
eating vegetables requires a mouth.
A warm glass of milk would make you want to sleep.
Something you find in a tank is fish.
You are likely to find a creek in a valley.
Children want to be loved.
Something you find on a roof is a cat.
An ear contains wax.
Something that might happen as a consequence of emptying your bladder is a feeling of relief.
One of the things you do when you are sick is you go to your doctor.
Something you find at an opera is a performer.
Every person has a name.
You are likely to find a bass in a river.
the world is small.
You would go fishing because you want to eat fish.
If you want to go into a coma then you should suffer brain damage.
Something you need to do before you go for a run is do warm-ups. 
Something you find in outer space is a comet.
a person wants a patient spouse.
Beer is a type of alcoholic beverage.
You are likely to find a driver's license in a wallet.
If you want to go for a walk then you should put on shoes and go outside.
a person wants hamburgers.
eating ice cream is for having dessert.
You are likely to find a balloon in the sky.
Something that might happen while preparing for a vote is research.
Rugs are often under tables.
You are likely to find a gun in a holster.
The earth is a round planet.
the government runs a country.
Pancakes can be served for breakfast.
a boy can marry a girl.
You are likely to find a house in the suburbs.
A close grouping of shots indicate good repeatability.
Fashion changes over time.
Plants contain a lot of chlorophyll. 
Something that might happen while watching a musician perform is tapping your feet.
a person can sleep in bed.
Something you find at a drive-in movie is hot-dogs.
a dentist is for repairing damage done to gums.
You would have fun because you want to enjoy yourself.
Something you find in a quandary is your mind.
seeing your favorite show is for enjoyment.
The effect of drilling a hole is a drill to put away.
Aluminum is a material that can be recycled.
You would kiss someone because you want to show affection.
The effect of visiting a museum is seeing parts of history.
a billboard is used for advertisement.
You would urinate because you want relief.
You are likely to find a diamond in a ring.
a tornado can kill people.
diseases are undesirable. 
The effect of going outside for an evening is relaxing.
You are likely to find a heifer in a herd.
Something that might happen while riding a bicycle is you ring your bell.
The last thing you do when you start a fire is put it out.
a person doesn't want to pay a fine.
Something you might do while fishing is cast a line.
Something you find at a bus stop is a line.
You are likely to find a stick eraser in a desk drawer.
Sometimes cleaning your clothes causes the clothes to shrink.
You are likely to find a cash coin in a pocket.
The effect of wrestling is somebody wins.
Scotland is part of Great Britain.
A lawyer can kill some deals.
the cards are on the table.
A hose is a physical object.
Something you find at a rest area is seats.
If you want to do the housework then you should have a house.
You are likely to find a skin care article in a woman's magazine.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to the mall is spending your money.
Something you find at a shop is tools.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to the hairdresser is your hair gets cut.
Something you might do while riding a bike is peddle.
The last thing you do when you write a letter is sign it.
A library is used for storing books.
a fitting room is used for trying on pants.
If you want to stop your car then you should push on the brake.
People need to eat to live.
A cat can kill a mouse.
The last thing you do when you brush your teeth is rinse out your mouth.
If you want to see old things then you should go to an antique shop.
Something that might happen when you get a contract is you get some money.
chatting with friends is for passing time.
The first thing you do when you run in a marathon is drink lots of water.
an eye is for vision.
writing a program is for a programmer.
If you want to help someone then you should offer.
A map is for finding the way.
You can use a garage to store tools.
Tiger Woods plays golf.
Fortune Cookies Contain Fortunes.
Birds have light bones.
seeing an exciting story is for having fun.
different shops sell different types of items.
Something you might do while running out of steam is get tired.
If you want to get exercise then you should go to the gym.
Adults can eat sushi.
Something that might happen when you pass a course is you learn something.
people dance to have fun.
The effect of paying cash is avoiding debt.
Sometimes cooking causes food to heat.
chatting with friends is for exchanging information.
Squash is a sport.
lead is very dense.
People eat breakfast in the morning.
Something that might happen when you pay cash is you get a discount.
receiving a degree is for making more money.
dancing is not fun.
A hamster is a type of rodent.
people is many persons.
A man can want a woman.
a husband is the man married to a woman.
You are likely to find a cold tap in the bathroom.
Something you need to do before you jump rope is get a rope.
An airplane can land on a runway.
Something that might happen as a consequence of lighting a match is setting a fire.
a CD is for distribution of music.
going to an opera requires tickets.
Something that might happen while going to the store is buying goods.
Something you find at a synagogue is worshipers.
a stethoscope is a tool.
The effect of going for a walk is falling over.
a messy house would make you want to do the housework.
Something you find at the library is pamphlets.
If you want to look through a telescope then you should take off the lens cap.
Something you need to do before you destroy your enemy is weigh the consequences.
If you want to wrestle then you should find someone to wrestle with.
a person wants to have a mate.
a person doesn't want their pets to die.
You are likely to find a spoon in the silverware drawer.
If you want to drink then you should get a glass.
You are likely to find a revolver in a gun shop.
a person wants a reliable car.
You are likely to find a rose bush in bloom.
You are likely to find a changing room in a department store.
lightning often strikes trees.
love causes people to act strangely.
Lightning is static electricity.
A child can want that toy.
diamonds are translucent.
If you want to eat lunch then you should buy lunch.
Something you find at a gallery opening is paintings.
A gardener can plant a tree.
people hear sound with their ears.
Star is the building block of galaxies.
You would smile because you are happy.
a jack is a lifting device.
a second violin is for playing music.
Something you find at a war is your enemy.
a clamp is used to hold items together.
a person doesn't want to hear lies.
a hair clip is for styling hair.
farmland is used to grow crops.
Something that might happen when you make people laugh is hear laughter.
Something you might do while visiting an art gallery is look at art.
A pillow is used for sleeping.
You are likely to find a kitten in a basket of laundry.
Massachusetts is a state.
Something you find in the universe is dark energy.
You can use a bishop to play chess.
You can use a floor to sit on.
having lunch is for eating food.
You are likely to find train tracks in a rail yard. 
Something you find at a street corner is a mail box.
A bobcat is a mammal.
The last thing you do when you thank someone is smile.
having lunch is for meeting friends.
a wing is used for providing lift.
a man can believe in god.
Boredom would make you want to go for a drive.
If you want to learn a language then you should practice.
people prefer to sleep in the dark.
Risk is a board game.
One of the things you do when you take in a film is sit down.
an acrylic is a type of painting.
You are likely to find a beanbag chair in a living room.
a person wants computers to work properly.
strong emotion can cloud your judgment. 
The sky is the limit.
Something that might happen as a consequence of running twenty six miles is completing a marathon.
Clinton is president.
eating in a fast food restaurant requires a strong stomach.
Onions have a skin.
One of the things you do when you open a bag of chips is eat.
A stool is a type of seat.
You are likely to find a horse in the country.
a horse shoe protects a horse's feet.
Basil is an herb.
fast cars can pass slow cars.
Vampires are the undead.
Sometimes going for a drive causes you to use gas.
going fishing is for sport.
the sun is for heat.
The last thing you do when you listen to music is turn off the stereo.
Something that might happen while learning is forgetting.
taking in a film is for relaxation.
Something that might happen when you sit down is the chair breaks and you fall to the floor.
Something you find at a synagogue is menorah.
You are likely to find a grape on or in a cupboard.
Metal is often heavy.
You are likely to find a monkey in soup.
dogs can eat fish.
a person doesn't want to be treated unfairly.
Some people have very expensive tastes.
Something you find in the freezer is frozen peas.
One of the things you do when you punch someone is make a fist.
metal can be painted.
grandparents are parent's parents.
An engine can power a car.
Vitamin C prevents scurvy.
a key case is for hiding a key.
Grammar is not always correct.
catching mumps is for children.
a vehicle is for transportation.
Babies use a pacifier.
Something you find at a fork in the road is a signpost.
The last thing you do when you travel is arrive at your destination.
An up quark is part of a delta-plus.
You would visit an art gallery because you enjoy art.
Disasters are bad.
You are likely to find a canal in Venice.
cleaning your room requires a vacuum. 
The capital of Afghanistan is Kabul.
The United States is a democracy.
The effect of watching a television show is wasting time.
Tanks are combat vehicles.
You are likely to find a highway in the united states.
a ticket booth is for buying tickets.
Something you find in a closet is a pair of shoes.
Dracula is a vampire.
hot sun would make you want to move a car.
You would have a shower because you want to cool off.
You are likely to find a spirit in a graveyard.
Some cyclists wear helmets.
You are likely to find a stone in a river.
You are likely to find a monkey in a cage.
a person doesn't want egg on his face.
A lyre is an instrument.
You are likely to find a BBQ in a restaurant.
Sometimes leaving the line causes you to have to return to the back of the line.
Sometimes teaching other people causes satisfaction.
Something you need to do before you have a physical exam is go see the doctor.
a king is a monarch.
materials are adaptable.
You are likely to find a monkey in a barrel.
You would meet a friend because you enjoy her company.
getting wet is for cooling off.
Toilets should be kept clean.
Many people like to play games.
Something you find at a car show is nice looking cars.
Sometimes running a marathon causes tiredness.
the Internet is a useful source of information. 
You are likely to find a line in the bank.
spinach is edible.
Sometimes passing your university exams causes happiness.
Something you might do while hearing the news is listen to it.
an air conditioning is used for cooling a room.
T-shirts can have funny messages on them.
Something that might happen while exercising is pain.
You are likely to find a fox in the country.
You are likely to find a horse in movies.
Sometimes doing housework causes sneezing.
You would stand in a queue because you want your turn.
If you want to stop your bicycle then you should use the breaks.
President Clinton plays saxophone.
A ticket is a piece of paper.
You can use a basement to store things.
People taste things with their tongues.
Something that might happen when you have an asthma attack is you puff your inhaler.
Something that might happen as a consequence of remembering is being sad.
a bus is for transportation.
mammals produce milk.
You are likely to find a suspension cable in a suspension bridge.
A cytoplasm is part of an animal cell.
A mitochondrion is part of an animal cell.
You are likely to find wings in a bucket of chicken.
superman can leap tall buildings at a single bound.
Books are resources which can be saved for further use.
You are likely to find a glass in a window.
pretending is for using your imagination.
a carpet is a floor covering made of woven yarn.
a sandal is a type of open shoe for hot weather.
You are likely to find a cat in a soft place.
Something you find on the beach is sand dollars.
Something that might happen while playing a sport is scoring.
sweating is a way to cool the human body.
Something you find at a bus depot is tickets.
Healthy grass is green.
You would buy something for a loved one because you want them to be happy.
a man can enter a door.
You are likely to find a hair in a brush.
You would surf the web because you want information.
Something you find in a suitcase is socks.
Something you find in a park is a bench to sit on.
pens can be used to write words.
You are likely to find a dining area in restaurant. 
If you want to impanel a jury then you should become a lawyer.
If you want to eat vegetables then you should wash them first.
You would attend a rock concert because you like the music.
You are likely to find an underground map in a subway.
Something you find in a box is shoes.
passing a course requires studying the course materials.
a department store is for shopping.
You are likely to find a flooring in a store.
a weapon is for threatening someone.
You are likely to find a broadcast studio in a radio station.
You would go to a film because you want to see the movie.
The effect of drilling a hole is using a drill.
The last thing you do when you go see a film is sit down.
Something you find in a cabinet is band aids. 
dancing the samba requires music.
You would read the newspaper because you want the news.
Something you find at a military base is guns.
If you want to drive to work then you should buy a car.
Some words have multiple meanings.
boredom would make you want to play cards.
You are likely to find a stringed instrument in a band.
An equestrian is a person trained to perform difficult tasks with their horse.
Something that might happen when you drive a car is you panic.
Somewhere a pearl can be is in an oyster.
Something you find in the garage is a mower.
going off strike requires a vote.
The earth is an oblate spheroid. 
Telephones ring.
Something you find on a boat is a galley.
Europe is in the northern hemisphere.
Money is not the measure of all things.
Climbing a mountain is a dangerous activity.
Something you find on the windowsill is a pie.
Something that might happen while striking a match is it catches on fire.
going on the stage is for acting.
If you want to go on strike then you should have a job.
a greeter can welcome a customer.
You are likely to find a hill in the country.
copper is a good conductor of electricity.
Something you find on a pizza is ham.
Les Claypool is a member of the band Primus.
Corn flakes is a common breakfast cereal.
You are likely to find sap in a tree.
CIA is an acronym for Central Intelligence Agency.
You can use a baseball stadium to play a baseball game.
A nail is part of a house.
You are likely to find an apple tree in the front yard.
a birthday is a special moment.
Something that might happen when you get a job is you have to work.
A banjo is a stringed instrument.
Something that might happen while sewing is pricking your finger with a needle.
Gumbo is a type of stew that includes peppers.
a wash cloth is for washing your face.
GOSIP is an acronym for Government Open Systems Interconnection Protocol.
plants feed on sunlight and water.
Gateway is a PC vendor.
Somewhere a chalkboard can be is in a school.
dogs can smell drugs.
A wine can age well.
Hesitation is an activity where a human pauses before doing something because they are afraid or because they want to reconsider it.
Something you might do while traveling is reading.
A quarterback is a football player.
Your mother doesn't want you to die.
lightning is a tremendous release of energy.
Something you might do while using a computer is reboot.
Ears hear noises.
Omnivores eat both vegetable matter and animals.
A healthy human tooth is a pearly-white color.
The effect of running in a marathon is being exhausted.
Oxygen in the air is an oxidizer. 
a rook is for protecting your king.
A building is a artificial structure.
Something you might do while cleaning the house is vacuum the rug.
logic is a system of evaluating arguments.
people can wave their hands.
French toast can be eaten.
the library is a good place to study with friends.
One unit of time is a day.
Something you find at the supermarket is vegetables.
a television is used for watching movies.
You are likely to find a toy in a child's room.
A cannon is a large heavy especially mounted gun.
Sometimes having lunch causes me to get sleepy.
French toast can be eaten.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking a walk is going outside.
exploring is for learning.
A note is part of some music.
Love is a sweet pastime.
You are likely to find physics on or in a school.
a victory would make you want to celebrate.
Communism is an abstract concept.
You are likely to find a wind instrument in a music store.
CAMBRIDGE is a kind of city.
Something you find under the table is shoes.
You are not likely to find a coat in bed.
Sometimes soaking in a hot spring causes you to have fun.
babies can crawl.
a person can tear a paper.
gerbil is used for petting.
You are likely to find a bridge in Oklahoma.
A story can begin.
The Earth Orbits the sun.
You are likely to find a human in a dwelling.
Something that might happen when you eat an apple is you bite into a worm.
an elephant is generally heavy.
The solar system has nine planets.
Something you need to do before you enter a Japanese house is take off your shoes.
You are likely to find a driveway in a suburb.
Our galaxy is the Milky Way.
Sometimes getting exercise causes tiredness.
You would receive a degree because you want to get a good job.
A blanket can cover a person.
Our solar system is in a galaxy.
Something you find in the attic is truss joists.
all animals need food and water to survive.
being a good child would make you want to please your parents.
art can be beautiful.
Something you find on the sea is sailing ships.
If you want to watch TV then you should turn on the television.
a lock is used for restricting access.
Zebras have stripes.
Something you find at a grocery store is a box of cereal.
Something you find at the supermarket is Cash register.
a desire to pass a course would make you want to get a good grade.
an old man wants to retire.
fall is also known as autumn.
You are likely to find a food store in a city.
PHP is computer code.
dandruff shampoo is used for the prevention of dandruff.
a map is used for locating a place.
mountaintops are cold.
You would go to a play because you're bored.
some tulips are pink.
going to get a haircut is for smartening your appearance.
a toy ball is for playing a game.
Something that might happen when you buy fresh fruits and vegetables is paying for them with money.
One of the things you do when you sleep is close your eyes.
You would see a particular program because it interests you.
A prince is the son of a king and a queen.
Pepper is hot.
Some homes are tents.
Something you find on the rug is a dog.
Ears have cartilage in them.
You are likely to find haircutting scissors in a barber shop.
a student can forget her homework.
the groom can kiss the bride.
If you want to play Frisbee then you should go outside.
Hunger would make you want to feed your family.
You can use a noise to get attention.
roses are a sign of love.
If you want to reach a tentative agreement then you should have a meeting.
a file is used to store information.
Cardboard can be recycled.
Something you find at a state park is wilderness.
Something you find on the porch is wicker furniture.
Something that might happen while getting clean is taking a shower.
One of the things you do when you take an examination is think.
an audience is a group of people that watches a performance.
Something you need to do before you weed the garden is find some weeds.
Something you find at a friend's wedding is a nervous friend.
If you want to stay fit then you should exercise daily.
You are not likely to find a mouse on or in a tree.
Many people are dishonest.
If you want to join the army then you should go to a recruiting station.
Something that might happen while fishing is you catch the big one.
Something that might happen when you eat vegetables is getting your vitamins.
a paper clip is for holding paper together.
washing clothes is for having clean clothes to wear.
Something you find on a shelf is food.
a postal counter is for buying stamps.
Something you find atop the refrigerator is medicine.
a person wants smooth skin.
people can count.
You are likely to find a castle in Scotland.
conducting a trial is for attempting justice.
Something you find at dinner is conversation.
Every person experiences death.
masks are to hide your identity.
a person wants their family to be healthy.
fire can destroy homes.
a tree is used for beauty.
Year is made of days.
a roof is used for protection from the elements.
The last thing you do when you thank someone is shake their hand.
birds fly by flapping their wings.
an appointment book is for making appointments.
The first thing you do when you take the bus is get on the bus.
a person doesn't want to hear bad music.
rice is a starch.
Something that might happen as a consequence of adding up numbers is getting a total.
Something you find at a hotel is a front desk.
If you want to light a fire then you should use flint and steel.
Doctors treat patients.
You would open a bag of chips because you are hungry.
Most vehicles have wheels.
If you want to take finals then you should study to prepare for them.
A beagle is a type of dog.
Something you find on a roof is a chimney. 
The liver is an organ in the body.
A bay contains water.  
A bay is near land.
Something you find at a bar is wine.
Something that might happen while seeing artifacts is learning about the past.
Something you find at a war is ammunition.
Something that might happen while getting wet is getting a cold.
Something that might happen when you go to work is earning money.
a telephone book is for finding telephone numbers.
If you want to take an oath then you should swear.
A switch is part of an electrical circuit.
Rugged objects are not easily broken.
One of the things you do when you cook dinner is cut vegetables.
Something you might do while sleeping is cover yourself with a blanket. 
a child can own a toy.
You are likely to find a snake in tall grass.
Fire engines are trucks used by fire fighters.
You are likely to find the sky in a photo.
Sometimes eating in a fast food restaurant causes indigestion.
A diamond can be clear.
Snow is a form of precipitation.
a pew is for kneeling at.
Sometimes watching television causes laughter.
You would read the newspaper because you want to know the news.
breathing requires oxygen.
Vegetables are a type of food.
Women have babies.
getting in shape is for improving health.
Dice are random.
a boundary is for keeping things out.
You are likely to find jeans in a thrift store.
chickens are farm animals.
You are likely to find a fungus in rotting wood.
You are likely to find a first floor in a building.
You can use a bus to travel.
going to the zoo is for seeing animals.
Sometimes taking a phone call causes a car accident.
Italy is a country.
a person doesn't want to eat dirt.
A dresser is a piece of furniture.
Something you find in a meadow is sheep.
Something you find in a dresser is clothes.
dogs can't sweat.
a pledge can be broken.
The capital of Russia is Moscow.
You are likely to find a potato in an Irish stew.
Something you find at a fraternity house is alcohol.
dying is for changing colors.
Something that might happen when you buy a beer is paying money.
A mechanic repairs your car.
a dryer can dry wet clothes.
Something you find at the supermarket is rubber maid products.
Mother's love.
You are likely to find a hair conditioner in a bathroom.
a nostril is part of the nose.
You can use a mirror to see your reflection.
Something you find at a restaurant is a kitchen.
You would skateboard because you want to do tricks.
You are likely to find a dollar bill in a wallet.
You would email somebody because they don't answer their telephone.
Something you find at a street corner is a light pole.
a person doesn't want to take a cold shower.
people like to be together.
ducks are good to eat.
You would play a sport because you want to have fun.
A person can plan a party.
Something that might happen while stopping standing in it is moving.
a linen closet is used for storing linen.
You are likely to find a lizard in a hot place.
You are likely to find a linen closet in a home.
If you want to sew then you should get a needle.
a parent can school his own children.
You are likely to find trash in a dustbin.
meat tastes good.
hot weather would make you want to eat ice cream.
Sometimes going for a swim causes tiredness.
You are likely to find a font in a church.
Apples are sweet.
Something that might happen when you get drunk is vomit.
people have names.
chocolate is sweet.
a mistake can anger a person.
jacks is a childhood game.
Something you find at Bob Jones University is professors.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing a guitar is making music.
Something you find in the office is employees.
You are likely to find a horse in Oklahoma. 
Something you find in a boat is a life vest.
You are likely to find a subway platform in a subway station.
a hiker can rest his feet.
Something you find at an airport is restrooms.
going jogging is for exercise. 
Something you find in a garage is a workbench.
Something you find at the movies is darkness.
Something you find in the sky is the Goodyear Blimp.
a person doesn't want pollution.
Some people are artistically inclined.
The effect of opening a bag of chips is eating them.
Something you might do while standing in line is get tired.
Something you find at dinner is silverware.
A person wants critical thinking.
using a computer is for writing letters.
Something that might happen while using a VCR is recording a television show.
music can be bad.
a person wants to pass on ideas to future generations.
football players wear helmets.
The first thing you do when you post a message is type the message.
the sun provides energy.
One of the things you do when you fly in an airplane is look out of the window.
You are likely to find a ficus in a garden store.
The first thing you do when you run in a marathon is stretch.
Something you find at dinner is food and plates.
a store shelf is for displaying items.
The effect of bathing is getting clean.
watering a plant is for keeping it alive.
Plankton are tiny organisms that float in the seas and other bodies of water.
football is a very popular sport.
Something you need to do before you become more clean is be dirty.
Something you find at the bottom of the sea is sunken treasure.
going for a swim is for cooling off.
Time keeps slipping away.
a hair clip is for keeping hair out of your eyes.
Winnipeg is in Canada.
a candle is for decoration.
You are likely to find a pencil in a classroom.
A comb has many teeth.
A galaxy is enormous.
Male lions have manes.
You are likely to find a bathtub in a motel.
Something that might happen when you prepare for a vote is you research the issues.
plastic is an invention.
You can use a museum to learn about things.
All countries have different flags.
Water is a chemical compound.
You are likely to find a small dog in someone's home.
Hot dogs are bad for you.
a supermarket is for buying food.
Something you find in a bus is a group of students.
Boats float on top of water.
Something you find in the attic is a light.
Something you find in a cabinet is a bottle of aspirin. 
Israel is a country.
Something you find on the rug is footprints.
Salamanders are slimy.
Something you find at a soccer game is violent fans.
If you want to sign a contract then you should get a pen.
You are likely to find an armchair in a lounge.
A singer doesn't want a sore throat.
Water is made of oxygen.
You are likely to find a table on or in a home.
a person wants simplicity.
You are likely to find a launch pad in cape Kennedy. 
If you want to get in shape then you should join a gym.
Something that might happen while getting the latest hairstyle for a night out on the town is a haircut.
You are likely to find a highway in a city.
Something you find on the fridge is a shopping list.
a person doesn't want her parents to die.
Something you might do while drinking is eat a burger.
A law practice must be soundly financed.
Water boils.
You would run in a marathon because you want to sweat a lot.
a garment bag is for storing clothes for travel.
Something that might happen when you get onto the web is losing your connection.
You would fly a kite because the wind is blowing.
The effect of playing a guitar is acting cool.
If you want to breathe some fresh air then you should move to the country.
doctors use tongue depressors.
Something you find on a shelf is salt.
sitting quietly requires patience.
Something you might do while going to work is drive a car.
cars can cost money.
You are likely to find a creature in the black lagoon.
serving customers requires patience.
You are likely to find a fruit in a refrigerator. 
a woman can hunt for a husband.
Something that might happen when you awake is you drink coffee.
You are likely to find a small dog in an animal shelter.
Something that might happen while exercising is shortness of breath.
Something that might happen when you play basketball is you drop the ball.
The first thing you do when you fix a computer is turn it off.
You can use a bus seat to sit on while riding on a bus.
Love can give hope.
The first thing you do when you start a family is find a partner.
Mississippi is a state.
painting requires brushes and paint.
few women are mayors.
A classroom chair is in a classroom.
Something you might do while advancing into battle is kill other people.
attending school requires transportation.
Horses are used to play polo.
If you want to complain about the state of the world then you should write a letter to a newspaper.
One of the things you do when you prove your physical endurance is run a marathon.
You can use a muscle to walk.
Something you find at a waterfall is tourists.
Something you find at a soccer game is soccer players.
A violin has four strings.
Mexican food can be tasty.
Something you find at the repair shop is a broken toaster.
a person doesn't want rotten food.
a person doesn't want open sores.
expressing information requires a good understanding.
Basketball is one form of exercise.
Cats like to eat plants.
Something you might do while losing weight is diet.
Sometimes taking final exams causes you to stress.
Overgrown weeds would make you want to weed the garden.
You are likely to find dust bunnies in the closet.
rubber stretches. 
getting onto the web requires an electric connection.
Something you find in the desert is cacti.
fire can heat anything.
Something that might happen as a consequence of making friends is making even more friends.
Sometimes weeding the garden causes back pain.
mailing a letter is for paying a bill.
Guinness is a kind of beer that is traditionally served at room temperature.
Something you find at a party is food and drink.
Something that might happen as a consequence of cooking a meal is you know the ingredients.
people swim in the ocean.
People can be happy.
You are likely to find a lizard in Oklahoma.
Something that might happen while visiting other countries is you discover new food.
Something that might happen while dancing is moving.
horses live outside.
many toys are made of plastic.
The effect of having an epileptic fit is scary. 
You are likely to find a display cabinet in a museum.
Sometimes watching a movie causes you to cry.
Something you find under a tree is an apple.
despair would make you want to complain about the state of the world.
Something that might happen while signing a contract is regret.
Something you find at a street corner is a mailbox.
The last thing you do when you wash your hands is dry them.
a senior is a student in his last year of school.
Something you find at a war is a gun.
a person wants peace and quiet.
You would go for a run because you want to release stress.
Something you find in a boat is a puddle of water.
praying requires faith in God.
Horses are herd animals.
You would play a game with your friends because you want to have fun.
Something you might do while falling is scream.
Something that might happen while entertaining someone is they get bored.
If you want to get a divorce then you should hire a lawyer.
a tin is for holding things.
seeing art is for relaxation.
wanting to watch a tape would make you want to use a VCR.
a person doesn't want to be cooked.
You would eat vegetables because you want to be healthy.
money is a limited resource.
being an alcoholic would make you want to attend a meeting.
a person wants to know the truth.
fruits are a healthy food.
going to market is for a trip out of the house.
You would fall because you want to hurt yourself.
Something that might happen while getting clean is scrubbing.
dogs have ears.
Something you find on the roof is loose shingles.
Something that might happen while getting clean is the water gets dirty.
women can equal men.
The effect of howling with laughter is a sore side.
Men sometimes have long hair.
Buddhism is a more compassionate religion than Christianity.
some plants can be dangerous.
You are likely to find a snake in a rocky area.
The effect of reaching a tentative agreement is calmness.
Something you might do while going on strike is stop working.
The tip of a dart is sharp.
You are likely to find corn in cans.
A lock is used for securing a door.
hanging out at the bar requires an id.
a person wants freedom of expression.
The first thing you do when you go for a run is stretch.
The effect of painting is changing color.
Something you find under the bed is old socks.
One of the things you do when you go to sleep is snore.
You are likely to find a harp in an orchestra.
If you want to clean the house then you should start doing it.
Something that might happen as a consequence of smoking is you develop a cough.
lying is for cheating.
Bagels are a type of food.
Repetition is often boring.
Sometimes expressing information causes anger.
A dog toy may be a toy dog.
a person doesn't want to lose their wallet.
Leaves change colors in the fall.
diving requires a lot of skill.
You can use tartar control toothpaste to control your tartar.
If you want to shout at the top of your voice then you should go outside.
You are likely to find a moisturizer in lotion.
You are likely to find a ficus in a mall.
One of the things you do when you take the bus is pay for a ticket.
If you want to pay cash then you should not use a credit card.
A computer disk holds information.
ambition would make you want to study for a subject.
diving is for relaxation.
seeing old things is for bringing back memories.
rifles and handguns are firearms.
washing your hands requires warm water and soap.
You can use an article in a magazine to read.
If you want to work then you should get a job.
a person doesn't want a celibate marriage.
a friend would make you want to see a band.
The ocean is beautiful.
A cabinet is a type of furniture.
If you want to eat healthily then you should eat fruit.
An HMO is a medical insurance company.
You would program because you want specialized software.
Mountain snow provides water in the summer.
Something you find at a war is grenades.
The last thing you do when you go on the stage is perform.
Something you might do while lying is avoid eye contact.
Helmets can prevent head injuries.
Something you find at the front door is a door knob.
Georgia is a former Soviet republic on the east coast of the Black Sea.
running twenty six miles requires stamina and good shoes.
Hands can tear paper.
going to a baseball game is for fun.
A lute is a stringed instrument.
a person can press a button.
clothing styles change.
You are likely to find a pulpit in a cathedral.
A rug is a small piece of carpet covering part of a floor.
Something you find on the fridge is children's art.
You are likely to find hay in a barn.
some birds can float in water.
Afghanistan is a key bird migration route.
The last thing you do when you bathe is pull the plug.
You are likely to find wood in a hardware store.
music is composed.
Statistical multiplexing is a mechanism to reduce bandwidth requirement of bursty and VBR traffic sources.
bird poop on your car is bad.
Something you find in a building is bricks.
people like to compete.
enjoying tortillas is a tactile experience.
Another good way to learn about yourself is to play sports.
horseshoes are heavy.
posting a message requires using words.
a rocket ship is a kind of vehicle.
A harmonica can be annoying.
Glue sticks things together.
teaching is an important cultural activity.
Something you need to do before you remember is think hard.
If you want to eat then you should make food.
a bell is for summoning people.
Wine is an ingredient for many sauces.
Some galaxies are in the shape of a spiral.
a person doesn't want to change.
You are likely to find an apartment in the city.
a person doesn't want to lose control.
If you want to love someone else then you should find someone to love.
Mallards are ducks.
Something you find at a demonstration is activists.
West Virginia is part of the United States of America.
Something you find at the end of a line is a period.
Many bottles are made of glass.
a person wants to be attractive.
a prosthesis is a fabricated limb that a person can use to help him when he has lost one of his natural ones.
You are likely to find god in fiction.
books come in different sizes.
You are likely to find a sister in the house with you.
Singing a song is a great way to relieve stress.
doing a crossword puzzle is for relaxation.
Something you find at a gallery opening is artists.
An employee can please a boss.
communism is a type of government that does not allow free enterprise.
You are likely to find a snake in India.
A dog doesn't want fleas.
If you want to do a crossword puzzle then you should get a pencil.
Elizabeth is a woman's name.
a person wants to be heard.
Birds fly with wings.
a person doesn't want wet clothes.
Granite is a very hard type of rock.
You can use a back garden to grow plants in.
You would empty your bladder because your bladder was full.
People need to eat food. Sometimes they cook their own food, and sometimes they eat in restaurants.
lightning is a form of electricity.
Something you find in bed is sleeping people.
The first thing you do when you go for a swim is change into a bathing suit.
galaxies are really big.
backgammon is a board game for two players.
riding a bicycle is for going to work.
People usually live in houses.
a ticket booth is for purchasing tickets.
wood is a renewable resource.
a person wants dessert.
A person can trip another person.
You are likely to find a fungus in old food.
Illinois is part of the United States of America.
the English Channel is for fishing.
A migrant worker can pick fruit.
Parents take care of their children.
a Star is created over a long period of time.
books can be all different sizes.
a harpsichord is for Playing music.
writing is for communicating thoughts.
a person doesn't want to fail a test.
Submarines can be dangerous.
people have eyes.
A prince can succeed the king.
a measuring cup is used for measuring food.
a beanbag is for playing games.
Something you find at church are sermons.
tortoises can live a long time.
You are likely to find a cauliflower on or in a greengrocer's.
Beer is liquid.
submarines operate in water.
a Star is created by dust.
Aluminum cans can be recycled.
You are likely to find a voice in a radio.
You can use an arena to see a show in.
A herbivore wants to eat plants.
some people are Japanese.
Some cats have yellow eyes.
Cartoons represent reality.
gerbil is made of fur.
Something that might happen when you score a home run is you slide.
Fungus gnats are annoying.
South Carolina is a State.
spruce is a kind of tree.
a lecture theater is used for teaching.
A computer is office equipment.
a lie is deliberately unhelpful information.
Sometimes applying for a job causes work.
You can use a bat to hit things.
ontologies can group similar things.
mind is made of consciousness.
You are likely to find Erie in Pennsylvania. 
A cat is often a friendly pet that purrs with pleasure.
a handgun is a kind of gun.
Something that might happen when you drink alcohol is forgetfulness.
Something you might do while obstructing justice is committing a crime.
a person doesn't want to be unappreciated.
Something that might happen as a consequence of standing in line is you get to the front of the line.
You are likely to find a trumpet in an orchestra.
If you want to breathe some fresh air then you should open a window.
a debit card is used for paying for something.
A vice is used to squeeze.
One of the things you do when you brainstorm is come up with ideas.
a pavement is for driving cars on.
emptying your bladder requires urination.
If you want to start a fire then you should strike a match.
A student can fool a teacher.
Openmind is part of the Internet. 
Sometimes an infection causes death.
a person wants to go on vacation.
You are likely to find Durham in north Carolina. 
Canada has a lot of nice places to ski.
You are likely to find an archway in a building.
You are likely to find a bean in the field.
an answer is part of an interview.
The capital of the Netherlands is Amsterdam.
Sometimes getting a divorce causes remorse and anger.
Some humans eat fish.
Love is confusing.
a person can thank a person.
The radio studio is part of the office building.
Something that might happen while writing a poem is self expression.
A pathway can guide the walker.
having a rest is for revitalizing yourself.
One of the things you do when you post a message is writing the message.
You are likely to find poverty in Afghanistan. 
seeing a particular program requires planning.
You would make friends because you like the person.
Cats have a good sense of smell.
You can use a salad shaker to shake the salad.
a cello is an instrument.
a xylophone is used for playing tunes.
Something you might do while taping a television show is watch something else.
You are likely to find a cat in a vet.
a person doesn't want to get sick.
Moses can part the waters.
gravity pulls everything towards the center of the planet.
holly is a tree.
opening a bag of chips is for eating chips.
going to a party is for Celebrating.
The last thing you do when you wait on tables is collect your tip.
Something you find at the gym is exercise equipment.
You are likely to find a pitcher in the kitchen.
You are likely to find gold in a ring.
building a tower out of toy blocks is for fun.
Atlanta is in Georgia.
dogs are very common pets.
burying the cat requires a spade.
Something you find at a carnival is people.
You are likely to find a club in school.
Something you find at a bus depot is people.
an air conditioner is used for cooling air.
taping a television show requires equipment.
hickory is a tree.
Exercise is a good way to keep elderly people healthy.
listening to music is for dancing.
Something that might happen while going on strike is nobody wins.
You are likely to find a booking office in a building.
Something you find in a building is a hallway.
The last thing you do when you contemplate is make a decision.
Something that might happen while eating breakfast is you read the newspaper.
If you want to rest then you should take a break.
If you want to clean then you should get a broom.
Somewhere air can be is in a balloon.
Something you find at a demonstration is signs.
a mess would make you want to clean your room.
Something that might happen when you play a harp is music is heard.
Something that might happen while talking is debate.
A tree can shade the car.
People ride bicycles to work.
a gymnasium is for gymnastics.
Rhode island is a state in America.
hanging out at the bar is for Getting drunk.
dental care is a medical profession.
Something you find at the dentist is a waiting room.
Phosphorus is an essential component of living systems.
You are likely to find a mouse in New York.
One of the things you do when you play a game is compete.
Giraffes are native to Africa.
Something you find in a boat is fish.
You are likely to find a bassoon in an orchestra.
hearing music is for enjoying yourself.
If you want to take a course then you should enroll in a school.
nuclear power plants can generate electricity.
You would hike because you want to get somewhere.
a highway is a wide, long, fast road.
Stairs often have railings.
A revolution is quite an interesting change.
Flu is an abbreviation for influenza.
A suit is an action, particularly in equity or for divorce.
dying is for ending a live.
beer is not white.
a circular route is used for returning to an origin.
sheet music is a sheet of paper with notes written on it.
Something that might happen while fighting inflation is increase the interest rate.
Irrationality is a condition of existence.
You can use a hole to hide in.
Length is a spatial dimension.
You can use a foot to kick a ball.
white is a blending of all colors of the spectrum of visible electromagnetic radiation.
If you want to change your appearance then you should cut your hair.
A captain's dinner is a special event.
Microsoft sells proprietary software.
Star Trek is a great show.
Something you might do while playing the piano is sing along.
cats can run.
A dream is a personal experience.
a person doesn't want to break a tooth.
airplanes can circle an airport.
Something that might happen when you wait tables is spilling a drink on a customer.
butter is an ingredient often used in cooking.
Something you find behind the fridge is dirt.
French toast is not a kind of dessert.
beer is a type of alcohol.
the Gobi desert is a kind of a desert.
The effect of crossing the street is to get to the other side.
a tugboat is a boat.
Willow is a kind of tree.
Something you find at a hockey game is people.
libertarianism is a type of political ideology.
Something that might happen as a consequence of finding information is learning.
A garden is a place with plants. 
Many people have a BBQ on their patio.
Ruby is a pure object-oriented programming language.
You are likely to find a head in beer.
A newspaper is made of ink and paper.
A person can date another person.
TV is a way to relax.
designing software is for artificial intelligence.
A meal is created by ingredients.
You would take a walk because you want to stretch your legs.
South Dakota is part of the United States of America.
A basketball is a round object used in a game.
wood is part of A guitar.
If you want to write a term paper then you should use a computer.
stars are created by hydrogen.
If you want to skateboard then you should get a skateboard.
a black hole is a massive celestial body.
You are likely to find a grocery store in the city.
Praying is generally comforting for those who choose to take comfort in such things.
Osprey is a bird.
guitar is a kind of chordophone.
A telephone index must be like a telephone book.
You are likely to find chapel hill in north Carolina.
You would cross the road because you want to get to the other side.
playing tennis requires knowing the rules.
The Chinese were the first to use rockets in battle.
Columbia is a country in South America.
Buses are yellow.
Horses are not people.
Something that might happen as a consequence of cleaning clothing is it shrinks.
One kind of illness is asthma.
Something that might happen as a consequence of jumping rope is sweating.
You are likely to find a garden hose in the back yard.
a record library is used for storing records.
Going out to dinner with friends is a popular social event.
snowmen can wear hats.
Something you might do while playing chess is capture the queen.
a person wants prompt responses from computers.
a writing instrument is used for making notes.
working is for wage-slaves.
Birthday would make you want to give a gift.
A beanbag chair is a bag filled with Styrofoam beads.
a mustang is also a brand of car.
Forklifts are used to lift heavy things.
The first thing you do when you have a shower is take off your clothing.
a knight is an armored soldier.
locks are for keeping other people out.
If you want to maintain muscle strength then you should exercise regularly.
The first thing you do when you pay the bills is open envelopes.
MIDL is an acronym for Microsoft IDL.
a hen is a chicken.
One of the things you do when you see an exciting story is get excited.
Something you need to do before you clean your clothes is take your clothes off.
GUI is an acronym for 'Graphical user interface'.
The first thing you do when you do the housework is clean.
Something that might happen when you do housework is you sneeze.
California is part of The United States of America.
A glass of water is a glass filled with water.
You can use god to justify war.
Something you find on the sun is a sunspot.
a hammer is for pulling out nails.
A holiday is a special day.
Something that might happen while climbing a mountain is you look down.
Something you need to do before you stop your bicycle is apply the breaks.
Neptune is a gas planet.
Conservatives tend to be capitalists.
an accommodation is used for staying in.
You are likely to find a passage in bible.
shampoo is a liquefied form of soap used to wash the hair on a person's head.
a person doesn't want low self-esteem.
The last thing you do when you create art is sign it.
Animals mate to reproduce.
a bloodstone is a precious stone.
a head is for hats.
a soldier is used for fighting.
You can use an electric razor to shave your face.
Orkney is a group of islands off the north coast of Scotland.
a telephone ringing would make you want to take a phone call.
showers make you clean.
discovering the truth is for scientists.
A pen is a device for putting ink on paper.
Chocolate is a type of candy.
Water is the main ingredient in beverages.
a phone can make calls.
Hydrogen is a gas fuel.
One of the things you do when you get a good grade is feel good about yourself.
A horse can jump a hurdle.
You are likely to find a department store in a mall.
A salad bowl is a large bowl for serving salad in.
If you want to have a shower then you should get naked.
a front yard is for planting flowers.
You would clean the house because it is dirty.
You would clean clothing because your clothing was dirty.
A child can dress her dolls.
Something you might do while eating is watching TV a person doesn't want to be a victim of prejudice.
Something you might do while playing chess is move a rook.
Something you find in the purse is lint.
Somewhere humans can be is in the universe.
an appraiser can value an antique.
The ocean covers about 75% of the earth.
a son is part of a family.
You are likely to find an accordion in a music store.
Curiosity would make you want to attend a lecture.
a pet owner can walk a dog.
A horse can drink water.
an electric fan is for air circulation.
overpopulation is a serious problem.
Something you find at a gallery opening is people.
You are likely to find a mouse in a computer lab.
a person wants eye contact.
going for a jog is for your health.
You would answer questions because you want to pass on information.
If you want to get onto the web then you should log in.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having a bath is you are cleaner.
Something you find at an apartment is a landlord.
babies have soft skin.
Something you find at a store is nails.
Something that might happen as a consequence of attending a rock concert is enjoying yourself.
man is generally good.
You can use a credit card to buy gas.
You are likely to find a dining room in a home.
You are likely to find a robot in a manufacturing plant.
Peach is a color as well as a fruit.
jumping at the chance is for taking an opportunity.
The last thing you do when you entertain people is thank them for coming.
The effect of soaking in a hot spring is water.
animal can eating.
a person wants to live a long and happy life.
a fly is small.
The effect of bringing home some fish is eating fish for dinner.
Sometimes disease causes death.
people can bridge gaps.
You are likely to find a corner grocery in a town.
Something that might happen while having a physical examination is you talk to a doctor.
driving a car requires consciousness.
London is a city in England.
Something you find in the fridge is sour cream.
getting in shape is for looking better.
One of the things you do when you thank someone is show your appreciation.
an atom is made of Quarks.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to the hairdresser is getting a haircut.
a trumpet is used for music.
A reader can page through a book.
dice have numbers.
Wood has a grain to it.
an island with a palm tree.
If you want to eat lunch then you should prepare the lunch.
A teacher can mark homework.
Something that might happen as a consequence of living is death.
You are likely to find variables in PHP.
You would play soccer because you want to have fun.
If you want to fight the enemy then you should join the army.
ambition would make you want to be in charge of a project.
play is used for competition.
Water runs down hill.
each person has two lips.
You are likely to find velvet in clothes.
North Dakota is part of the United States of America.
Something you find in a backpack is granola bars.
A baton is a stick used by a musical conductor.
Lions are native to Africa.
You can use a ranch to breed cattle.
Something you find at a waterfall is mist.
People often have favorite foods.
One of the things you do when you are happy is smile.
Rhode Island is part of the United States of America.
advancing into battle is for going to war.
You are likely to find a rubber in a pencil case.
You are likely to find a theater ticket in pocket.
Ohio is part of the United States of America.
Something you find in a street is a lamp post.
You are likely to find a lizard in the sun.
Yellow Rubber Ducky Morphine is a sedative.
Something that might happen when you debate politics is Argue.
a pda is a computer.
Something that might happen while playing football is being injured.
a stick of butter is used for making cookies.
a short circuit is a bad thing.
You can use a writing instrument to write a note.
Information is a type of abstraction.
Young people go to school.
A policeman is a member of the police force.
The effect of playing hockey is broken teeth.
You would lose weight because you're fat.
a car is not an animal.
A golfer can drive a golf ball.
People go on vacation.
Something that might happen when you surf the web is wasting time.
Something you find under water is dolphins.
A blown up picture of a safety pin.
If you want to take a bath then you should fill the tub.
Peas and onions are food.
You can use a basketball to bounce. 
Something that might happen as a consequence of making a better world is more people will be happy.
losing weight is for living longer.
Something you find at a grocery store is toilet paper.
Something that might happen while buying food is comparing prices.
Sulfur dioxide is a dangerous component in atmospheric air pollution.
you can play that game.
a person doesn't want things to wear out.
You are likely to find a snake in a pit.
mailing a letter requires a stamp.
Something you find at church is tithes.
Something you might do while drilling a hole is wear eye protection.
a bicycle is for traveling on.
You are likely to find a pillowcase in the linen closet.
You can use a hammer to hit someone.
a courtyard is a place inside a building with no roof.
Anyone can answer that question.
Something you find at an apartment is tenants.
a person wants strong bones.
Somewhere a level can be is in a toolbox.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in a ballpark.
Something you might do while bringing in a verdict is stand up.
kings wear crowns.
the eye can see colors.
One man's mythology is another man's religion.
A mother can kiss her child.
Many viruses can cause the common cold.
A hat is a form of clothing.
The first thing you do when you go to a sporting event is get tickets.
giving a gift is for Christmas. 
a page is used for writing.
Something you find over the rainbow is a dream.
Something you find at the bottom of the sea is mud.
earth is the blue planet.
Sometimes playing chess causes someone to win.
Something that might happen as a consequence of driving a car is running out of gas.
having a party is for celebrating a special occasion.
Ecology changes at different elevations on a mountain.
You are likely to find a gazelle in the steppe.
You are likely to find a mountain in Canada.
tortoises are very slow.
Some people live in a family.
Sometimes reproducing causes overpopulation.
Something you need to do before you play basketball is get a ball.
Something you find on your finger is hair.
Mercury is an element.
One of the things you do when you go to the mall is get walking exercise.
a plectrum is used for picking.
a tuba is a brass instrument used to play bass notes.
You are likely to find a shoe in a foot.
If you want to enjoy the day then you should have some fun.
Something you find in a breadbox is crumbs.
You are likely to find a rented apartment in the inner city.
Something you find at an airport is a taxi.
eating a hamburger requires opening your mouth.
You are likely to find staples in the desk.
a freezer is used for making ice cubes.
Sometimes kissing someone causes pleasure.
You are likely to find a backdrop in a photography studio.
Something that might happen while living a life is loving.
William Gibson is a writer.
Something that might happen as a consequence of getting wet is slipping and falling.
You can use a machine gun to shoot lots of bullets.
Something you find on a plate is a fork.
You are likely to find a blanket in a closet.
Shaking hands is an important social practice.
Sometimes following a recipe causes dinner.
a shoulder bag is used for carrying items.
Something you might do while growing vegetables is water plants.
You are likely to find an apple tree in Oklahoma.
getting in shape requires exercise. 
The first thing you do when you live is be born.
Something you find in the loft is furniture.
Something you might do while walking the dog is wait for him to pee.
a judge can judge a defendant to be guilty.
a radio studio is used for broadcasting.
The last thing you do when you go to a baseball game is leave the stadium.
A mandolin is not a kind of piano.
Something you need to do before you take an examination is sharpen your pencil.
You are likely to find a keyboard in a music store.
Gardeners can grow flowers.
If you want to lose consciousness then you should go to sleep.
a symphony hall is for playing music.
Sometimes losing consciousness causes loss of life.
Something you find at work is workers.
If you want to meet people then you should go to parties.
The effect of watching television is wasted time.
You are likely to find a bus stop in a street.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying a hamburger is eating a hamburger.
men's and women's clothing are quite different.
cooking a meal requires having the ingredients.
Something you find at a soccer game is a soccer ball. 
If you want to fight the enemy then you should go to war.
You would sign a contract because you want to buy a house.
If you want to write a term paper then you should write an outline.
You would run because you need the exercise.
Military submarines are very expensive ships.
Something you might do while making a better world is planting a tree.
Something you find at a war is people.
You are likely to find a brother in home.
A building has a foundation.
Fine restaurants do not serve to cardboard people.
Something you need to do before you agree with someone is understand.
seeing exhibits is for museum visitors.
The calendar was invented long ago.
candy contains sugar.
a bull can charge a matador.
playing chess is for entertainment.
people can care for animals.
a snare drum is for making noise.
Something you find at church is a prayer book.
a bench can be made of wood.
If you want to cut your hair then you should use the scissors.
The effect of debating politics is arguments.
You are likely to find a potato in the soil.
a walk in closet is used for storing lots of clothes.
AMD makes the K6-2+.
The effect of reading is knowledge.
There is an asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter.
horse jumping may be dangerous.
You can use a sunglasses to protect your eyes from the sun.
Something you find atop a mountain is ice and snow.
You are likely to find an aircraft roadway in the airport.
People can fight each other.
dressing nice is for dates.
Football is a type of sport.
You would help someone because it is the human thing to do.
celebrating requires a party.
Something you find in a laboratory is an experiment.
You are likely to find a kosher delicatessen in the city.
Something you find under a rock is a bug.
You can use a parlor to play games.
Something you find on the street is a street lamp.
Somewhere a performer can be is on stage.
Sometimes crossing the street causes accidents.
attending class is for teachers.
learning about a subject is for students.
Carpeting is used to cover bare floors.
The first thing you do when you have a party is send invitations.
a correction fluid is for correcting mistakes.
Sometimes tying your shoelace causes your shoes to stay on.
A pitcher can jog to the pitching mound.
Cardinal is a bird.
thunder follows lightning.
Balloons can be filled with air.
You can use a hammer to knock something out of place.
Something that might happen when you pass your university exams is getting your degree.
You can use a lobby to have a drink.
cars can kill people.
You are likely to find a university in a city.
the media spreads ideas.
The last thing you do when you see art is leave the museum.
Some people sleep in pajamas.
A landlord can let a flat.
You are likely to find a conference auditorium in an office building.
If you want to take in a film then you should go to a movie theater.
A tent is a temporary shelter.
You are likely to find a condo in Florida.
Something that might happen as a consequence of visiting a museum is obtaining knowledge.
The first thing you do when you make love is kiss.
You can use a train seat to sleep on.
cooking is for killing bacteria in food.
Something you find at a carnival is a carousel.
Something that might happen when you stay in bed is you get rested.
You are likely to find a launch pad in a space center.
Somewhere beer can be is in a bottle.
Something you find in a bathtub is a bar of soap.
Something you might do while working the box office is distribute tickets.
children would make you want to see exhibits.
Something that might happen when you live a life is death.
Something that might happen while surprising someone is a scream.
Cancer is bad.
You would read a magazine because you are bored.
Something that might happen as a consequence of hearing singing is listening.
a person doesn't want an unreliable car.
Something that might happen as a consequence of meeting a friend is you talk.
war is not healthy for children and other living things.
adding up a column of numbers is for accountants.
having friends over is for entertaining them.
A cigarette contains tobacco.
Something that might happen while paying by credit card is debt increases.
gardening on a hot day would make you want to take a shower.
a gun is a type of weapon.
socializing is for networking.
a virus can mutate.
All humans have names.
there are many varieties of coffee bean.
seeing art is for enjoyment.
playing is for children.
people can sail a boat.
Something you might do while washing clothes is use bleach on your whites.
an airline seat is used for sitting in an airplane.
You are likely to find an umbrella in a car.
Something that might happen as a consequence of reading to your children is the children fall asleep.
If you want to find a lost item then you should seek it.
Something that might happen when you send e-mail is A reply.
Sometimes getting some physical activity causes sweating.
a dance club is for meeting friends.
Something you might do while serving justice is put crooks in jail.
You are likely to find a steakhouse in Texas.
You are likely to find a ticket office in a cinema.
terrible pain would make you want to die.
Dogs and cats are both common pets.
Something you might do while going to a sporting event is buy a jersey.
A piano is a heavy musical instrument.
watching TV requires glasses.
preparing for a vote requires studying the candidates.
You would find information because you want answers to your questions.
a pillow case is used for encasing a pillow.
Something you might do while creating art is relax.
People sometimes tell lies.
Something that might happen when you strike a match is you get a flame.
The effect of watching television is boredom.
Something you might do while resting is breathe deeply.
You are likely to find a king in court.
hot dogs would make you want to have lunch.
You are likely to find an examination table in a doctor's office.
waiting for someone requires taking the time.
Fruit is part of a healthy diet.
Sometimes buying products causes you to try them.
you can meet a stranger.
Something you might do while driving a car is park.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having a conversation is exchange of information.
a gentleman opens doors for ladies.
You can use a spiral binding to keep pages together.
Something you might do while learning about a subject is homework.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having friends over is they drink all your booze.
running requires using your feet.
If you want to have fun then you should relax.
Something you might do while meeting a friend is order a pizza.
light can be focused.
Sometimes awaking causes a need for coffee.
People can wash their car.
Something that might happen as a consequence of building a cathedral is you use a lot of glass.
houses have doors and windows.
Sometimes driving your car causes you to crash into a ditch.
a man can dig a hole.
Something that might happen while going for a walk is you pick flowers.
humans have fingers.
Something that might happen while winning a baseball game is happiness. 
You would give a gift because you want to express your love.
Something that might happen while getting a divorce is you feel a great sense of personal loss.
Sometimes swimming causes changing locations.
Sometimes loving someone else causes sadness.
studying for a subject is for learning a subject.
You would go to an opera because you want to use your ticket.
The effect of washing clothes is wet clothes.
pretending requires free imagination.
Children can delight their parents.
Something you might do while painting is spill it on your shoes.
Something you might do while playing basketball is win a game.
watching the evening news requires a television and electricity.
advancing into battle is for attacking your enemy.
Something you might do while having a haircut is gossip.
The last thing you do when you buy a house is sign some papers.
the desire for cleanliness would make you want to do housework.
If you want to see a movie then you should go to the movies.
A notepad is used for writing.
You would go to a film because you want to waste time.
You would socialize because you want friendship.
Something you find in a street is a light pole.
Something you might do while reaching an advantage is work hard.
You are likely to find a club chair in a club.
a coast is for access to water from land.
The effect of eating a cookie is happiness.
Sometimes flying a kite causes fun and laughter.
a flute is used for music.
The effect of going to a concert is hearing live music.
If you want to look through a telescope then you should visit an observatory.
Sometimes praying causes a miracle.
Something you might do while playing sports is score a goal.
The effect of studying is improved job performance.
Something that might happen while burying the cat is say a prayer.
Something that might happen when you help someone is they take advantage of you.
Something that might happen as a consequence of flying a kite is Joy.
going public requires someone to care.
You are likely to find a god in a museum.
being with children would make you want to tell a story.
Something you might do while playing tennis is lose.
Sometimes seeing old things causes new memories.
You are likely to find a man in a bar.
You are likely to find a crab in a fish market.
Something you find at a waterfall is spray.
a delicatessen is for sandwiches.
You are likely to find a coach seat in an airliner.
needing dog food would make you want to go off strike.
One of the things you do when you play poker is fold.
Something that might happen when you get paid is you cash your check.
Something that might happen when you study is you know your subject well.
You would make a shopping list because you want food.
You are likely to find clippers in the bathroom.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to a play is you sit.
A paradox is a statement that seems to lead to a logical self-contradiction.
going to a Laundromat requires money.
Penguins place their eggs on their feet.
The effect of shopping is stocking up on essentials.
a person doesn't want raw meat.
Sometimes giving a gift causes embarrassment. 
The effect of reaching an impasse is frustration.
Something that might happen while computing a sum is boredom.
a person doesn't want loved ones to die.
Something that might happen while going for a jog is you stop to buy a coke.
You are likely to find a heater in a house.
Something that might happen when you get a job is you get a lunch break.
If you want to play then you should play.
cooking a curry requires a stove.
You would drive a car because you want to go home.
Something you might find in a freezer is peas.
people keep dogs as pets.
Something that might happen as a consequence of seeing your favorite show is you laugh out loud.
Something you need to do before you go on the Internet is dial in.
wanting to be higher would make you want to climb.
You are likely to find a koala in the woods.
Something you might do while proving your physical endurance is push yourself.
a person doesn't want discomfort.
Something that might happen while getting in line is you look for a shorter line.
The effect of growing vegetables is food to eat.
reproducing requires intimacy.
You are likely to find a fountain in Rome.
a teacher would make you want to write a term paper.
You are likely to find a motel in Las Vegas.
You would take a phone call because you want to ask a question.
Mercury is a toxic metal.
Something that might happen while conducting a trial is panic.
Something you find in the purse is car keys.
thinking requires a functioning brain.
A BBQ is short for barbecue. 
The effect of killing is horrible.
Something you might do while playing ball is swing the bat.
Something that might happen while having a haircut is you sneeze.
a sea is for sailing boats in.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to the store is you buy gum.
Sometimes urinating causes arrest.
The brain is a part of the human body.
insanity would make you want to run in a marathon.
The time is now.
Something you might do while waiting tables is fall.
Some people keep pet mice.
The effect of weeding the garden is quality time with the dogs.
You are likely to find a toothbrush handle in a toothbrush holder.
Sometimes traveling causes sickness.
If you want to eat vegetables then you should buy vegetables.
Large waves would make you want to surf.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing a game of chess is you have fun.
a BMW is a type of car.
Something you might do while taking finals is think about your dog.
a map is for orientating yourself.
Something that might happen as a consequence of snoring is the dog barks.
Something you find in a cabinet is dinner plates.
Something you might do while going on the Internet is look at pictures of dogs.
a beanbag chair is used for relaxing.
Sometimes shouting at the top of your voice causes dogs to howl.
Something you find at a drive-in movie is a screen.
Something that might happen as a consequence of killing someone is you get blood on your favorite shirt.
An engine can have six cylinders.
Something that might happen while cleaning your room is boredom.
If you want to see a band then you should open your eyes.
Something that might happen as a consequence of getting onto the web is you play games.
If you want to buy presents for others then you should buy presents.
The effect of playing cards is having fun.
Something you find in your mouth is spit.
running a marathon is for strong men.
Something you might do while lying in bed is sleeping.
killing someone is for soldiers in a war.
a person doesn't want burnt food.
The effect of taking an examination is a grade.
You can use a line to make drawings.
weight lifting is a form of exercise.
accommodations are used for sleeping.
If you want to act in a play then you should try out.
a second floor is used for bedrooms.
Baseball pitchers can throw a ball very fast.
The last thing you do when you watch TV is turn off the set.
The effect of hurting someone else is more hurt.
You would jump rope because you want to have fun.
taking the car for a drive requires a driving license. 
Something that might happen while going to sleep is sweet dreams.
You can use a window to keep cold air out.
The effect of traveling is moving.
a key is for keeping things secure.
You can use a chess king to move a space.
Something you find at the supermarket is people.
Something that might happen while listening is you change your mind.
a person wants respect from others.
Something you might do while visiting a museum is take pictures.
singing is for having fun.
You are likely to find a subway pass in your wallet.
People need to eat to survive.
Something that might happen as a consequence of growing vegetables is you have fresh tomatoes. 
stopping your bicycle is for avoiding accidents.
Something you might do while examining a thing is start it.
Something that might happen when you smoke is bad health.
a mayor is used for leadership.
If you want to fly in an airplane then you should take flying lessons.
You are likely to find a dressing room in a clothing store.
Nurses work in hospitals.
If you want to relax then you should stop worrying.
a movie house is for making money.
moving a car is for driving it.
Something that might happen while burying the cat is digging.
You would pass your university exams because you want to get a good job.
You are likely to find a bottle in the nursery.
a person doesn't want allergies.
Something you find at Disneyland is a roller coaster. 
Something you find on the surface of the earth is snow.
using a computer is for making money.
Wren is a bird.
You are likely to find a neighbor in the house next door.
Something that might happen when you get wet is you feel cold.
a person wants relief.
A bedroom is a type of room.
coffee can be on a table.
seeing art is for Appreciation.
a basement may be used for protection during a tornado.
Sometimes adding up numbers causes confusion.
You are likely to find an auditorium in a high school.
A living room usually has a couch in it.
Something you might do while checking vital signs is check for breathing.
Something you need to do before you take the car for a drive is adjust the steering column.
Something you need to do before you walk around a lake is find a lake.
Exploring caves is called spelunking.
If you want to take a course then you should enroll.
razors are sharp.
A musket fires a ball projectile.
Sometimes going for a swim causes cramps.
salt is a mineral.
going for a jog is for training.
Books are an important source of knowledge.
dancing requires movement.
fighting war requires an army.
You would listen to the radio because you want to listen to music.
instruments make music.
Something that might happen when you learn about a subject is taking notes.
releasing your energy requires movement.
Leaves grow on stems.
wood is a solid.
There are twelve months in a year.
listening is for enjoying music.
Young cats are called kittens.
If you want to strike a match then you should get out a box of matches.
Ice hockey is a sport.
putting on the stand requires knowledge.
Something you find at a bus depot is homeless people.
Snow falls from the sky.
a person doesn't want head lice.
cheese can age well.
competing against someone requires skill.
a stool is used for reaching high places.
An activity a patient can do is take a pill.
If you want to clean then you should have something to clean with.
You would eat in a restaurant because you want a good meal.
trees can shade the sun.
The effect of fiddling is happy music.
dolphins can swim.
Something you find in Zimbabwe is people.
Nylon is a synthetic fabric.
Hawaiian is a human language.
a dentist office is for reading magazines.
an operating system can run applications.
setting a cup on the table requires putting the cup down.
You are likely to find a rosebush in the store.
Libertarian is a political party in the United States.
You are likely to find a curling iron in a bathroom.
Microphones are not food.
One of the things you do when you program is borrow code.
The effect of typing is letter.
Thunder is the loud sound created by lightning.
The first thing you do when you drive a car is turn the key.
You are likely to find the English Channel in the northern hemisphere.
An activity a baseball player can do is hit a home run.
a shirt is worn on your upper body.
Something that might happen when you eat lunch is you order soup.
a laundry room is for washing clothes.
You are likely to find a bean bag chair in a furniture store.
Men can please women.
Something you might do while using a computer is type words.
reading requires open eyes.
sheep are animals.
cruises is the plural form of cruise.
having a physical exam requires stress.
Most dogs are playful.
A ribosome is part of an animal cell.
a cup is used for drinking coffee.
Something that might happen when you shout at the top of your voice is people hear you.
You are likely to find a rented apartment in an apartment building.
A track is oval-shaped.
You are likely to find a heifer in Idaho.
missing your dog would make you want to bring in a verdict.
Silence can be suspenseful.
A lysosome is part of an animal cell.
The last thing you do when you sing is bow.
Something that might happen while learning about the world is you are surprised.
If you want to run after the ball then you should look at the ball.
Americans live in the united states.
If you want to post a message then you should go to a newsgroup.
circumstances would make you want to contemplate.
If you want to destroy your enemy then you should do it with compassion.
Something you find at work is customers.
Something that might happen while dreaming is snoring.
Sometimes going on the Internet causes a waste of time.
Something you find at the office is coworkers.
You are likely to find a helium balloon in a birthday party.
pride would make you want to conquer your opponent.
a vegetable garden is for growing food.
The mind is subjective.
advertising would make you want to buy products.
eating ice cream requires having ice cream to eat.
Something that might happen as a consequence of moving a car is driving.
You can use a finger to test water temperature from a faucet. 
Something you find with a metal detector is a gun.
Something that might happen as a consequence of breathing is oxygen gets into your blood.
a person doesn't want to be in constant pain.
a trophy is a symbol of victory.
Beer is made with water.
An apple has many cooking uses.
snowing is a type of weather.
a landmass is for building cities.
Serotonin is a neurotransmitter.
Something that might happen as a consequence of eating breakfast is the dogs want some too.
a tractor is a vehicle.
Something you might do while going to a movie is buy candy.
washing clothes requires time.
Animals can sense fear.
If you want to go on the stage then you should become an actor.
Something that might happen while fighting the enemy is victory.
painting a picture requires supplies.
You can use a salad spinner to make salads.
a person can give gifts.
a nose is used for breathing.
Something that might happen while bringing home some fish is you buy a lemon.
If you want to go to bed then you should lay down.
Something that might happen when you go to bed is you fall asleep.
A community can trade services for money.
Something you need to do before you reach a tentative agreement is be reasonable.
The first thing you do when you pray is kneel down.
getting hit in the head hurts.
If you want to forgive someone then you should talk with them.
Something that might happen as a consequence of diminishing your own hunger is you use food.
You are likely to find a castle in England.
You would play basketball because you want to have fun with your friends.
An activity a cat can do is hide under the bed.
the effect of gravity would make you want to fall.
people collect coins for spare change.
playing a guitar requires a guitar.
Sometimes sending e-mail causes the spread of a virus.
You would see exhibits because you want know.
You would remember a phone number because you want to call it often.
You are likely to find a restaurant diner in a restaurant.
The last thing you do when you remember a phone number is forget it.
Something that might happen while playing a harp is mistakes are made.
An activity a star can do is supernova.
sewing is a craft.
Something you might do while playing Frisbee is exercise the dog.
Something that might happen when you drink alcohol is you become dehydrated.
Something you might do while cleaning is sweep floors.
A ruler can measure a length.
You are likely to find a gazelle in the store.
posting a message requires literacy.
having a checkup requires medical insurance.
You would eat ice cream because you're hungry.
If you want to find a lost item then you should hunt for it.
You are likely to find strings in a piano.
You are likely to find a snake in a ditch.
loneliness would make you want to talk to someone.
playing the violin requires skills.
Something that might happen when you wait on line is you move slowly.
Sometimes emptying your bladder causes relief.
a person doesn't want to eat a worm.
If you want to pass a course then you should go to the library.
Something you might do while catching mumps is visit someone with mumps.
You are likely to find trash in a garbage dump.
repairing an umbrella requires patience.
a man can meet a woman.
a good band would make you want to listen to music.
Wanting to exercise would make you want to play a sport.
The last thing you do when you clean your room is admire your work.
Something that might happen while dying is you lose control of your mind.
A piece of paper is used for making a paper airplane.
printing on the printer requires a computer.
You are likely to find a bathroom in a hotel.
Something you find on television is a VCR.
Something that might happen as a consequence of flying a kite is electrocution.
Climbing a mountain is a dangerous activity.
Wires are used to conduct electricity.
eating an apple is for health.
Something that might happen while getting fit is you get more energy.
Measles is a common childhood disease.
Something you might do while playing baseball is strike out.
You would join the army because you want a big gun.
If you want to wash your clothes then you should gather your dirty clothes together.
People smuggling is a major international issue.
People race sailboats.
a judge makes decisions.
painting the house would make you want to take a shower.
A lute is a musical instrument.
One of the things you do when you play chess is think.
boredom would make you want to get some physical activity.
Something you might do while opening a gift is read a card.
If you want to decide a criminal's fate then you should become a judge.
The first thing you do when you play a guitar is pick up the guitar.
A bird can land on a branch.
You can use a fluoride mouthwash to kill bacteria.
Something that might happen as a consequence of testing the car is buying the car.
Something that might happen while seeing your idea become reality is you swell with pride.
A frame is part of a picture.
plywood is made of wood.
You are likely to find a line in a graph.
seeing a movie requires free time.
People can experience joy.
a turquoise is a precious stone.
The effect of starting a family is having a baby.
Sometimes analyzing something causes tension.
Sometimes procreating causes pregnancy.
A suit is an article of clothing that a person might be wearing.
Something that might happen when you take a shower is you forget your towel.
The effect of lighting a match is getting a flame.
a hospital is used for emergencies.
computers are not sentient beings.
Something that might happen while seeing a particular program is you decide you like it.
The effect of reading a letter is knowing a person's feelings.
dogs can't speak.
Sick people go to a hospital.
You would do a crossword puzzle because you want to pass time.
a person wants to be with a cat.
Idaho is part of the United States of America.
A Volvo is a kind of car.
Something that might happen when you change society is you may be resented.
Something you find at a train station is railroad tracks.
The effect of learning is enlightenment.
suspicion would make you want to discover the truth.
Sometimes taking an exam causes you to feel good.
If you want to go on the stage then you should study acting.
dogs can be trained.
Pens can be expensive.
Something that might happen as a consequence of changing your appearance is people comment.
A scale is a device for measuring an object's weight.
a gallery is used for art.
You would shop because you want to buy new pants.
If you want to play hockey then you should join a hockey team.
Thinking is a constant activity for the waking mind.
a desk tray is for storing paper clips.
Sometimes visiting other countries causes pride.
Something you find in the closet is storage items.
a pistol fires a bullet.
plants need light to thrive.
The effect of driving to work is performing your daily routine.
Something you might do while going to a film is eat candy.
A woodwind instrument is a kind of instrument that includes flutes, single-reed woodwind instruments, and double-reed woodwind instruments.
eating an apple requires using your teeth.
Something you might do while running is get a blister on your foot.
One of the things you do when you surf is wipe out.
electronic devices can be turned off.
If you want to cook dinner then you should buy the food.
Something you might do while sitting down is knit.
You are likely to find a convenience food store in the city.
cigarettes can be crushed.
An expert can answer that question.
Something that might happen as a consequence of resting is you get renewed energy.
Something that might happen while getting some physical activity is you have fun.
a telephone pole is made of wood.
If you want to read a letter then you should first open it.
Something that might happen as a consequence of fighting the enemy is panic.
Water can be polluted.
A story can end.
You are likely to find a nest of tables in a restaurant.
Sometimes playing the piano causes aggravation.
children would make you want to tickle.
a rickshaw is used for transportation.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing tennis is you pull a muscle.
buying a hamburger requires finding a restaurant.
going to bed requires a pillow.
You are likely to find coffee on or in a coffee shop. 
Something you need to do before you sign a contract is read it very carefully.
exercising requires lots of energy.
The effect of walking around a lake is getting to see all sides of the lake.
ice cream would make you want to eat ice cream.
women can carry purses.
Something that might happen as a consequence of watching the evening news is disgust.
using a calculator requires numbers.
A guitar is a kind of hobby.
Something you might do while singing is forget the words.
Something that might happen when you see old things is you think.
committing to memory is for later recalling.
software is used for the Internet. 
Something that might happen when you sleep is you have a nightmare.
You would satisfy appetites with minimum effort because you want a snack.
Sometimes falling causes broken bones.
a hockey puck is for making a goal.
You can use an ottoman to prop feet.
enjoying the day requires peace of mind.
an opera ticket is for going to the opera.
Scientology is used for brainwashing and corruption.
writing a letter is for sending information.
You would place a basketball on the floor because you want to set it down.
Chlorophyll is a chemical.
You are likely to find a stepladder in a hardware store.
playing the piano requires fingers.
Something that might happen while having a haircut is your hair is washed.
You can use a hardware store to buy tools.
working the box office requires the ability to make change.
You are likely to find a mouse in the garden.
jumping rope is for play.
Something you find in a laboratory is glass beakers.
Sometimes surprising someone causes a heart attack.
unicorns have only one horn.
Sometimes reaching an impasse causes stress.
Something you find in the kitchen is steel wool pads.
Revolutions are fragile things.
painting a picture requires vision.
If you want to play football then you should gather a team.
You are likely to find a shop in a shopping mall.
You can use a coin slot to insert coins.
Something you find at a soccer game is goalies.
The effect of making bread is pride.
Something that might happen while bringing in a verdict is you blab about the facts.
You can use an adhesive bandage to cover a wound.
a person wants a green thumb.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking a course is panic.
Frisbees are made of plastic.
Something that might happen while cleaning your clothes is they get cleaner.
playing chess is for enjoyment.
You are likely to find a lizard in Kansas.
A person can own a house.
You would run because you are scared.
doing housework is for exercise.
You are likely to find a typewriter in an office.
an army can advance toward the enemy.
Corn can be on the cob.
Marigold is an annual plant.
houses can be white.
Sometimes entertaining people causes lack of money.
The first thing you do when you go to a performance is find a seat.
a person can drink liquid.
Something that might happen as a consequence of learning about science is you experiment.
The Internet connects many networks.
Sony is a corporation.
A wind instrument is used to create music.
panic would make you want to make a phone call.
chicken is a type of food.
You are likely to find a curtain in a bedroom.
climbing a mountain is for excitement.
You can use confetti to celebrate.
Planes fly through the air.
Sometimes enjoying the company of your friends causes enjoyment.
Something you find in a plane is a global positioning system.
clouds can bring rain.
News is broadcast on the radio.
adding up numbers is for finding the sum.
Most communities have leash laws.
getting a divorce is for ending a marriage.
Something you find on your finger is wrinkles.
Something you find in the fridge is vegetables.
Something that might happen while waiting tables is you earn money.
women are female humans.
a ticket is for riding a train.
You are likely to find a lemur in India.
One of the things you do when you drive to work is steer a car.
Reading is very important.
Something that might happen when you clean clothing is getting wet.
You are likely to find a gentleman in a restaurant.
hawks fly high.
Stress would make you want to drink alcohol.
Petroleum has become indispensable to almost every aspect of modern society's operation.
using a television is for watching the news.
If you want to drink then you should have a liquid container.
A duplex is a type of housing.
Something that might happen while taking a course is buying books.
Something you find in a library is silence.
You are likely to find a city hall in towns.
Something you find at a funeral is flowers.
A cytosine is part of a DNA.
You can use a utility case to carry tools.
seeing a band is for excitement.
Something you find under water is shipwrecks.
Something you find in the basement is a hot water heater.
You can use the ocean to relax.
You would wait on tables because you want to earn a living.
Something you find in a forest is insects.
a person wants a flat tummy.
Something you might do while examining a thing is research.
You are likely to find a marmoset in a burrow.
a knife is used for slicing.
a person doesn't want a backache.
Something you might do while examining a thing is taste it.
Something that might happen when you eat quickly is you choke.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going jogging is your heart rate increases.
You are likely to find a stage curtain in a theater.
You can use a council to decide.
Something you find in jail is barred rooms.
a person doesn't want to answer silly questions.
satisfying your hunger is for satisfaction.
If you want to knit then you should find knitting needles.
You are likely to find a train station in a city.
A paper clip holds sheets of paper together.
Something you find at a friend's wedding is wedding guests.
Something you find in a jar is jelly beans.
If you want to shout at the top of your voice then you should open your mouth.
learning is very important.
You are likely to find a toy car in a toy box.
You can use a person to help.
a bookshelf is used for books.
getting onto the web is for surfing.
a lover can leave a relationship.
Something you find in a cabinet is nails.
You are likely to find a serving cart in a restaurant.
Very few people can play a Theremin well.
love is an aphrodisiac.
One of the things you do when you go to a play is have fun.
You can use an archway to pass through.
If you want to live then you should not sky dive. 
Something you find in your mouth is your gums.
A battery can power a toy.
Dogs can wear a sweater.
You would surf the net because you want to find information.
Death Valley is in California and Nevada.
wood can be sanded.
Most bankers do not eat dogs.
seeing your favorite show is for relaxing.
You are likely to find a return ticket in an airport.
You can use a mantra to meditate.
Somewhere brains can be is inside a skull.
A spouse can distance themselves with silence.
Students can study for tests.
crime doesn't pay.
Corn is edible.
You are likely to find a spring binder in an office supply store.
a person wants to make a good decision.
Something you might do while attending school is make friends.
Charmaine Honey is an active member of both Tuggeranong and Belconnen Open Art Programs.
Love is contagious.
You would play chess because you like the mental challenge.
Something you find at the gym is people.
resting is for rejuvenation.
You would gather energy for tomorrow because you want to have a good day.
A towel may be used to clean up a spill.
One of the things you do when you freak out is lose contact with reality.
Something you find on a desk is a wrist rest.
You are likely to find an egg in a bird's nest.
A Chinese restaurant serves Chinese food.
Something you find in a street is street sweepers.
White is the opposite of black.
Something that might happen while driving is turning off the windshield wiper.
a person wants to be strong.
One of the things you do when you learn about a subject is read about it.
a sign is for advertising.
taking final exams is for passing the course.
Something you might do while taking the bus is buy a bus pass.
Sometimes jogging causes good health.
You are likely to find a grape in a garden.
You would return to work because you want to continue earning a living.
a subway stop is for getting on the subway.
Something you might do while seeing a particular program is learn.
Something you need to do before you take in a film is read the review.
some entrances are also used as exits.
Something you find in the trash is crumpled up paper.
Saturday is the day after Friday. 
playing the piano is for music.
The ring bearer can hold the ring.
Something you find at the supermarket is money.
committing a crime is against social good.
growing vegetables is for gardeners.
going to another place in the same city cheaply is for saving money.
Some flowers bloom in summer.
You are likely to find a superhighway in America. 
Something you might do while working is type on a keyboard.
sending a criminal to prison requires a trial.
Something you find at a bookstore is a paperback book.
Something you find in a house is a sink.
Something that might happen as a consequence of instituting a civil action is a trial.
a person wants a good paying job.
Chicken Soup isn't a true cure for colds.
Something that might happen while celebrating is drinking alcohol.
Sometimes seeing your favorite show causes good feelings.
You would make bread because I'm hungry.
remembering something requires recall.
a person wants to hear sincerity.
If you want to take final exams then you should study hard.
You can use a towel to dry dishes.
a clothing closet is for storing suits.
You would read to your children because you want them to learn.
Old books were bound in leather.
drinking alcohol is for social occasions.
Teeth can cause pain.
waiting tables is for serving customers.
waiting in line is for Buying tickets.
Severe pain would make you want to die.
An outfield is part of a baseball field.
Very few people are content.
Sometimes seeing exhibits causes learning.
One of the things you do when you get drunk is stagger.
a person wants jewelry.
Something you find in the trash is a wadded-up piece of paper.
The effect of seeing art is confusion.
a president can be an elected official.
Something that might happen while passing a class is getting good grades.
a baking oven is for baking cakes.
You are likely to find an Italian restaurant in the city.
Sometimes having a bath causes relaxation.
old people need to exercise too.
photo shop is a kind of computer program.
a person wants to have a tax refund.
Something that might happen as a consequence of using a calculator is getting an answer.
Something you might do while being involved in an accident is get angry.
One of the things you do when you answer questions is Think about the answer.
washing dirt from between your toes requires water.
buildings can fall down.
stars can only be seen at night.
a ranch is used for cattle.
Something you find at a soccer game is referees.
a BBQ is also called a barbecue. 
Something that might happen when you fight inflation is saving money.
A black cat can cross your path.
You would drive your car because you need to go somewhere.
Something you find in the cellar is a water heater.
Something you might do while playing is learn.
You are likely to find a check in a checkbook.
a person doesn't want people to be mean.
You can use an album to hold photographs.
The first thing you do when you go for a walk is put your walking shoes on.
You are likely to find telephone numbers in a telephone book.
A person can borrow some money.
having a shower is for Removing dirt from your body.
People drink beverages.
Something you find in compost is maggots.
You are likely to find a lizard in books.
a hand is part of the body.
Amiga is a type of computer.
Something you find at a store is items.
Something you might do while writing is eat.
Sometimes dancing causes you to become tired.
a person doesn't want to be outcast.
seeing a band is for hearing their music.
A bed is usually in a bedroom.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing hockey is winning.
proposing to a woman is for asking her to marry you.
Something that might happen while going public is selling stock.
You are likely to find a crab in the bottom of the sea.
a hair clip is for decorating yourself.
Linux Journal is a magazine.
a couple can row about anything.
A tree can grow leaves.
having an epileptic fit is for sick people.
If you want to get something then you should buy it.
sailing requires wind.
black is a color.
music is used for listening.
reading a book is for learning.
Sometimes competing causes you to lose a friend.
a person can wait for someone.
If you want to dance then you should find a partner.
One of the things you do when you join the army is get brainwashed.
One of the things you do when you reach an impasse is disagree with someone.
uranium is radioactive.
mammals cannot breathe water.
Something you find on the surface of the earth is a house.
light bulbs use electricity.
A clock can time a race.
giving a gift is for celebrating a birthday.
people live in a town.
If you want to learn about science then you should read some science books.
a judge decides the fate of a criminal.
Something that might happen while seeing exhibits is gaining knowledge.
Movies can be excellent.
people fear the unknown.
You are likely to find a basket with handle in shops.
A closet is used for storage.
The statement "An activity something can do is play music" is true because music is an activity.
Something you find at a water fountain is coins.
computing a sum requires use of mathematics.
Something you find at the doctor is magazines.
a pad is used for a mouse.
You are likely to find a toy marble in a marble bag.
The effect of running out of steam is exhaustion.
If you want to have a haircut then you should have hair.
Something you find at an apartment is a kitten.
If you want to serve customers then you should work in a restaurant.
You are likely to find a tap in a bathroom.
If you want to walk then you should take a step.
The last thing you do when you tie your shoelace is stand up.
a woodwind family is used for music.
You are likely to find a reception desk in a hotel.
a folding door is for closets.
Something you find at a rest area is shaded seating.
a glove leather is used for making gloves.
Something that might happen as a consequence of walking is moving.
doing some exercises is for maintaining health.
Movies are fun.
people watch TV for entertainment.
a mast is for a ship.
You are likely to find a credit card wallet in a woman's purse.
Something you find at a train station is a bench to sit on.
toilets have to be clean.
You can use a telephone box to make a phone call.
You are likely to find a billboard in a highway.
Something you find on the shelf is beer.
Something you find on a table is the surface.
One of the things you do when you make bread is heat the oven.
You are likely to find a rented flat in England.
the dog is small.
Mahogany is a wood.
You are likely to find a gazelle in the Ivory Coast.
If you want to sew then you should get a needle and some thread.
The last thing you do when you go for a run is take a shower.
a trash receptacle is used for putting garbage into.
fishing is for Fun.
Many birds migrate to warmer climates in the winter.
You are likely to find an anemone in a nursery.
water is used for cleaning.
You are likely to find a lake in Oklahoma.
A Tortoise is not a turtle.
Something that might happen while tickling is a terrible misunderstanding.
entertaining people is for making money.
Something you might do while learning about the world is read a book.
A magnet can stick to iron.
The effect of staying fit is being healthy.
If you want to eat lunch then you should open your lunch box. 
Frisbees are also round.
You are likely to find a wristwatch in a store.
Royalty likes to play polo.
You are likely to find a human in a graveyard.
Something you find at the bottom of the sea is a ship wreck.
lightning can cause a fire.
You are likely to find a crab in salt water.
many flowers have a pleasant aroma.
knives get dull.
Ohio is a state.
A clerk can bag groceries.
adding up numbers is for finding the total.
a person doesn't want a leaky roof.
Something that might happen when you surf is you are riding on a wave.
acting in a play is for actors.
The Internet is part of the modern communication system.
a person wants logical answers to her questions.
Clowns wear funny clothing.
Oil floats on water.
roller coasters are exciting.
marbles are spheres.
You would play the violin because you want make music.
sitting quietly is for reading.
The last thing you do when you have friends over is say goodbye.
cities are too crowded.
Something you might do while going to a baseball game is eat a hot dog.
If you want to take a shower then you should turn on the water.
You can use a bowl to hold liquids.
Violins can play beautiful music.
getting exercise requires moving.
A gambler can place a bet.
If you want to see exhibits then you should visit a museum.
Nirvana is a band.
Something that might happen while reading a magazine is seeing advertisements.
getting drunk requires alcohol.
Coffee is a breakfast beverage.
Something that might happen when you attend a rock concert is you get drunk.
celebrating is for fun.
You would go to the mall because you want to buy things.
paper can be torn.
Friends help each other.
One of the things you do when you reach a tentative agreement is communicate with somebody.
People don't like to sit in a dental chair.
buying a beer is for a party.
The effect of falling is hitting the ground.
a stapler is used for attaching papers.
kids are very active.
a person wants loyal friends.
Baseball is a popular sport in the United States.
You are likely to find a pedestal in a museum.
Sometimes passing a course causes happiness.
Water does not melt.
The effect of gaining more land is paying more taxes.
a shower is used for bathing.
umbrellas keep you from getting wet.
Something you might do while breathing some fresh air is inhaling.
water goes down hill.
people can sing songs.
a skin care article is for taking care of your skin.
Clouds can rain on you.
People breathe through their noses.
trash is bad.
Cats are a very common choice of pet.
You are likely to find a ferret in the pet store. 
Sometimes shouting at the top of your voice causes your throat to become sore.
You would visit an art gallery because you want to see art.
proposing to a woman is for marriage.
The effect of smoking is reduced lung capacity.
a person wants things to improve.
taking an exam is for testing your skills.
A dishwasher washes dishes.
Something you need to do before you sit on a chair is get a chair.
a person wants to fly.
You are likely to find a salad bowl in the cupboard.
a kangaroo can jump high.
A math test challenges you mentally.
a person wants a bargain.
Something that might happen as a consequence of committing murder is going to jail.
maps are pictures of the world.
washing clothes is for getting clothes clean.
babies are small.
Something that might happen while waging war is people die.
seaweed grows in the water.
The effect of playing the piano is lovely music.
helium is an element.
enjoying the day requires you to be happy.
You are likely to find quartz in a mountain.
Something you might do while discovering the truth is run an experiment.
Paint is used to create art.
a cavity is a decaying hole in your tooth.
Time always moves forward.
You are likely to find a dime store in a strip mall.
You can use crayons to draw.
Something you might do while going into a coma is forgetting. 
Something you find at the supermarket is cleaning chemicals.
Something you might do while washing clothes is use soap.
If you want to do some exercises then you should warm up first.
If you want to study then you should go to the library.
Red is the first color of the rainbow.
Something you find at a beach is an umbrella.
You are likely to find a county highway in the county.
A captain is the leader of a team.
mileage is a measurement.
bowling is a sport.
A saxophone is made of brass.
Something that might happen when you attend a classical concert is you hear classical music.
Wood can catch on fire.
You are likely to find an exit turnstile in the subway.
Skiing is a winter activity.
A crime can result in punishment.
Something you find at the repair shop is broken items.
Something you find at sea is an iceberg.
Grouper is a type of fish.
If you want to take a break then you should go on a walk.
A captain can captain a boat.
a patio door is used for entering a patio.
You would sit quietly because you want to think.
a brick is a building material.
no two things are exactly alike.
bones are part of a skeleton.
You are likely to find a dresser in a house.
If you want to change your appearance then you should dye your hair.
You are likely to find garbage in a garbage truck.
Medals are often made of metal.
You are likely to find a duffel bag in a locker room.
Running out of strike funds would make you want to go off strike.
a person wants parents.
If you want to go to school then you should catch the bus.
You would remember something because it is of interest to you.
A string bass is a musical instrument.
Something you might do while opening a business is register a business name.
Somewhere a sweater can be is in a drawer.
A revelation is a new idea.
cloth can be any color.
Something you might do while acting in a play is shout.
bicycle tires need air.
work would make you want to gather energy for tomorrow.
Something you find at a street corner is a street sign. 
The first thing you do when you comfort a friend is hug.
Something you find at work is challenges.
a child can fill a bucket with sand.
a person wants to eat food.
A guest can stay overnight.
a person wants to live free.
People wear waders to go fishing.
You would become inebriated because you want to forget.
Sometimes creating something to help other people causes you to feel good.
musical notes.
Submarines can be very big.
Paris is very romantic.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in a park.
Something you find on the ground is a coin.
Something you find at the bottom of the sea is a rock.
You can use a rubber stamp to mark something.
a bus shelter is used for waiting for a bus to arrive.
Something you need to do before you fight inflation is understand economics.
The effect of adding up numbers is finding the total.
a bass baritone is used for making music.
You are likely to find a committee in a board room.
You can use a band aid to heal a wound.
Maple syrup comes from maple trees.
Whales live in the water.
Something that might happen while reading to your children is they fall asleep.
Cats need sleep.
You are likely to find a staple remover in a desk drawer.
people do not want bad things.
Something that might happen while playing a game with your friends is winning the game.
a person doesn't want an earache.
Something you find at a home is pillows.
Something you find at a museum is a skeleton.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in the USA.
You are likely to find a sticking plaster in a hospital.
a person can smoke a pipe.
A kilogram is a measure of weight.
You are likely to find a contraceptive in a pharmacy.
If you want to tape a television show then you should have video.
Glucose is a sugar.
Something that might happen as a consequence of learning about science is become a scientist.
a person wants something in the mail.
an apple is for eating.
a person doesn't want confinement.
a bean is for cooking.
a corner grocery is used for buying food.
cotton is for threading.
An earthquake can kill a very large number of people.
a shovel can be used to dig a grave.
reading a newspaper is for getting news.
Something you find on a table is a clock.
If you want to lose consciousness then you should take sleeping pills.
You are likely to find a crab in the sand at a beach.
Something you need to do before you have a party is invite people to your party.
Sometimes returning to work causes stress.
Something you might do while acting in a play is forget your lines.
silence would make you want to listen to the radio.
Something you might do while traveling is get lost.
Egret is a bird.
The Internet is a group of connected computers.
Plums grow on trees.
golf is a boring sport.
You are likely to find a ticket office in the movie theaters.
A camera has a flash.
Something you find in the jar is change.
You are likely to find a bone in a fish.
People have body parts.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in Chicago.
Something that might happen when you wash your car is the car becomes clean.
You are likely to find a beaver in Texas.
Sometimes eating vegetables causes indigestion.
Something you find at an airport is a ticket agent.
You would clean your room because it is untidy.
You are likely to find a city in a state.
insurance can cover the cost to see a doctor.
Something you find in a car is car seat belts.
Europa is a moon of Jupiter.
Many people believe in God.
a child is a person.
If you want to stop your bicycle then you should put on the brakes.
Something you find on the subway is posters.
Some people have regional accents.
a pine is a evergreen tree.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in a park.
Death is the opposite of life. 
Death is what happens when a living creature dies.
a clown can delight children.
a pencil can be used to write a story.
Rain is water.
a wrapper is a material.
a person doesn't want to be set on fire.
Details can matter during combat operations.
You can use a typewriter to fill in a form.
a challenge would make you want to compete.
The effect of playing a guitar is music.
If you want to take the car for a drive then you should find the keys.
Something you find at a toy store is batz maru dolls.
If you want to program then you should define the data and results to be obtained.
You are likely to find a man in a car.
an eraser is used for removing pencil marks.
Something you find in bed is a book].
Some people feel affection for cats.
reading the newspaper is for killing time.
waging war is for conquering enemies.
Some people dance well.
Sometimes kissing causes herpes.
Something you might do while scoring a homer is cheer.
painting a picture is for detail.
If you want to go for a drive then you should wear your seat belt.
You are likely to find a doctor examination room in a clinic.
You are likely to find a blowfish in books.
Something that might happen as a consequence of riding a horse is sore legs.
having a haircut is for shortening the hair.
If you want to stay in bed then you should get sick.
Black holes exist.
a box is for packing.
A committee is a group of people that meets to discuss or study a particular topic.
horses are large animals.
Delaware is a state.
Something you find at the front door is the newspaper.
Nurnberg is a city in Franken.
You are likely to find a battle in Iraq.
Somewhere a musician can be is in the studio.
An artist is a creative person.
nylon is man made fiber.
Adding water can thin the liquid.
a person wants cotton candy.
a ranch is a place for raising cattle.
You are likely to find a hose in a garage.
Paul atreides is a hero in the first books of the novel dune.
Something you find at a rest area is vending machines.
A parking zone is a place that allows parking.
Something that might happen while playing hockey is the puck hits someone.
Helium is a gas at room temperature.
Something you find on the beach is a sun bather.
Lachlan Farrington is a molecular ecology research officer.
You would get to the front of the line because you want to buy a ticket.
JEFFK is a fictional script kiddie.
Sometimes maintaining good health causes happiness.
Rohypnol is a sedative.
Something you find in the loft is a bed.
a token can be a symbol.
A train is a long vehicle composed of many cars linked together.
Something that might happen when you go on the stage is stage fright.
Prince is a pop star.
A try is an attempt.
Free time would make you want to see your favorite show.
A portable shower head is a piece of hardware that you put in your shower.
listening to the radio is for passing time.
Sometimes opening a gift causes surprise. 
Something that might happen as a consequence of visiting a museum is being bored.
Glass is a physical substance.
mailing a letter is for sending information.
A pilgrimage is a journey to a holy site.
Every house has a roof.
a salad is a light healthy way to start a meal.
a person wants reward.
Sweet is a kind of taste.
Something you might do while howling with laughter is throw your head back.
Beltane is a pagan holiday that occurs on May 1st.
a person wants to be treated like someone special.
a person doesn't want to have to clean the house.
You are likely to find a stamp pad in a post office.
A bear wants to eat.
If you want to have food then you should be hungry.
Something that might happen when you clean the house is you vacuum.
Ebola is a lethal virus.
water evaporates.
a screw is a simple machine.
a card is for Christmas.
Something you find at a rest area is a bed.
One of the things you do when you play chess is think ahead.
peach is a kind of food.
Something that might happen while creating something to help other people is you make money.
A meal is created by a cook.
Something that might happen as a consequence of applying for a job is being employed.
Moral courage is a scarce commodity in a society that rewards conformity.
Something that might happen while staying fit is you die anyway.
You are likely to find Pennsylvania in the United States.
a cloud can cover the sun.
Stars are generally massive.
Vanderbilt is a university.
A gerbil is generally brown.
A person can cook dinner.
Birth is the start of life.
interest would make you want to play baseball.
Something you need to do before you perform injections is sterilize the surrounding tissue.
Something you find on a pizza is hamburger.
The effect of going to a film is seeing it.
You are likely to find a bungalow in the suburbs.
You are likely to find a gift in a gift shop.
Something you find in a jar is pickled onions.
Something that might happen while meeting interesting people is you learn stuff.
a person doesn't want trouble.
You would communicate because you have something to say.
a bookshelf is used for organizing books.
Something that might happen when you gain more land is you pay more taxes on it.
having sore feet would make you want to sit on a chair.
You are likely to find an eraser holder in your desk drawer.
going to a restaurant requires a credit card.
You would examine a thing because you want to know the details of it.
Something you might do while having a conversation is smile.
an accordion is for polka music.
A librarian can answer that question.
Sometimes breathing causes choking.
a tape dispenser dispenses tape.
You are likely to find a piccolo in a band.
a ring is used for decoration.
Something that might happen as a consequence of handling proposals is you transact business.
watching the evening news is for being informed.
Something you need to do before you get a divorce is have a wife.
Something you might do while following a recipe is read.
Sometimes meeting a friend causes much happiness.
Something you find at the bottom of the sea is sea weeds.
You would wait on tables because you need to earn money.
Something that might happen as a consequence of examining a thing is understanding the thing.
dandruff shampoo is used for washing hair.
a jury can side with a defendant.
You are likely to find a landing in a stairwell.
You are likely to find a container cup in a kitchen.
You would walk in the rain because you want to cool off.
Sometimes opening a gift causes excitement.
A student can gain knowledge from studying.
If you want to jump rope then you should get a jump rope.
If you want to travel then you should get in a vehicle.
You can use a pool to learn to swim.
Spam email would make you want to get something.
a canoe is for having fun.
You are likely to find a hair shaping gel in a supermarket.
Something you find at the end of a line is people.
Something you might do while cooking dinner is brown the hamburger.
a pouch is used for carrying on your person.
Little Gem Arborvitae is a plant.
You can use a basket to hold flowers.
You would eat dinner because you want to have the energy to play with your dog.
a painter can paint a picture.
Something you find under a tree is a sleeping man.
You are likely to find a flask in a laboratory.
If you want to write a program then you should code it up.
If you want to play chess then you should find a partner.
clouds float in the air.
You are likely to find a human in a shopping mall.
You would take a bath because you want bubbles.
doing some exercises requires discipline.
cherries grow on trees.
the Eiffel tower is in Paris. 
buying products is for consumption.
an office building is for investing in commercial development.
a train track is used for guiding the train.
The effect of standing in line is sore feet.
You would stay fit because you want to be healthy.
Somewhere a clip can be is in an office building.
an arena is for gatherings.
Somewhere clothing can be is in the hamper.
An automobile is a car.
a person doesn't want to fall on his head.
You are likely to find a supermarket in a city.
A wife is a female spouse.
Something that might happen when you watch the evening news is you see a story about dogs.
explorers can discover new lands.
Something you find in the sock drawer is money.
Something you find at the supermarket is people.
Something that might happen while building a cathedral is bricks are used.
a hunter can spot prey.
A lens is a important part of an optical system.
The effect of fighting the enemy is someone wins.
Something that might happen while waiting on tables is you drop a glass.
Something that might happen when you run after the ball is you get the ball.
Something that might happen while applying for a job is filling in a form.
Something you find in a trunk is an old photograph.
Something you find in the chemistry lab is chemicals.
You are likely to find a heifer in Ohio.
a person wants strong fingernails.
Something you find at a church is nonsense.
You would fight inflation because you want lower prices.
Jogging is good exercise.
Something you need to do before you fly a kite is buy a kite.
getting fit requires exercise.
driving is for control of a vehicle.
A teacher can circle a mistake.
Something you find at the doctor is a syringe.
A field is used to play a baseball game.
creating an idea requires some serious thought.
Dogs can pull sleds.
You are likely to find a kitten in a child's arms.
hearing the news requires ears.
a diamond is for forever.
You are likely to find a main artery in the human body.
Something you find on a desktop is a pad of paper.
You are likely to find a foyer in a home.
Some flowers grow from bulbs.
One of the things you do when you eat vegetables is wash them.
waiting tables requires balance.
Something you might do while going to school is take tests.
You are likely to find a payment counter in a bank.
Something you find in the cellar is a washer and dryer.
a passport case is used for protecting your passport.
The last thing you do when you take an examination is urinate.
Old people have white hair.
Teenagers can listen to rock music.
Something you might do while driving your car is concentrate.
A slide projector can show slides.
Murder is a type of crime.
the basement is the part of a building that is under the ground.
gardeners can grow plants.
Something that might happen as a consequence of losing consciousness is you can't drive.
Sisters are relatives.
Forks are used to eat steak.
You are likely to find a mayor in a city.
The first thing you do when you swim is get in the water.
supermarket is a kind of store.
A duck is a type of bird.
Something you might do while seeing a movie is entertain.
a sidewalk is for walking your dog.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying a shirt is being clothed.
Religion is confusing.
a flower is a type of plant.
Sometimes bathing causes dry skin.
One of the things you do when you become a scuba diver is get certified.
Something you find under your fingernails is dirt.
Something you might do while waiting your turn is be patient.
going fishing requires a fish hook.
Something that might happen when you propose to a woman is she turns you down.
Tuna and catfish are both fish that people eat.
If you want to visit other countries then you should have a visa.
A scientist can question the theories.
Something that might happen as a consequence of writing a term paper is course completion.
A Queen can read a book.
If you want to exercise then you should change your cloths.
determining the truth requires a combination of common sense and facts.
Something you need to do before you wash your hands is find water.
an uncle is your father's brother.
You are likely to find a rosebush in California.
walking around a lake requires a small lake.
Something you find at a bookstore is a biography.
Television is addictive.
a person doesn't want more government.
Sheltie is a kind of dog.
Jars hold things.
Something that might happen when you pray is you fold your hands.
buckets can hold water.
A sailor can ship out.
a bulb can be broken.
The last thing you do when you dream is wake up.
Sunday is a day of rest.
Sometimes printing on the printer causes noise.
smoking can cause lung cancer.
If you want to play a game of chess then you should buy a chess set.
Something you find at a hockey game is ice.
Something you find in a quandary is a person.
People are different.
Something you find at the supermarket is soup.
A pitcher can strike out a baseball hitter.
Something you might do while going to a movie is yawn.
You are likely to find a correction fluid in an office building.
A gerbil is generally fast.
Something you might do while being involved in an accident is be injured.
If you want to drill a hole then you should buy a drill.
a person doesn't want starvation.
Sometimes getting some money from someone causes criminal charges.
Insomnia is a sleep disorder.
Sometimes playing tennis causes you to get good at playing.
Something you find at the front door is fundamentalist Christians. 
The effect of waiting tables is serving food.
American life has gotten way out of balance.
A person can stand up.
You are not likely to find a piano in a marching band.
going into a coma requires a medical problem.
an eye is for staring.
A horse neighs.
You are likely to find clothes in a clothing store.
Something you might find in a freezer is TV dinners.
Something you might do while playing hockey is get into a fight.
dancing is for performing.
Sometimes watching the evening news causes depression.
You would reach an impasse because you want to explore all options.
fire can burn cloth.
Something you find on a roof is a satellite dish.
Something you find at work is coworkers.
A hunter can kill a deer.
a person doesn't want spoiled milk.
A child can please his mother.
Roofs are the tops of buildings.
having food requires farming.
If you want to soak in a hot spring then you should go to a hot spring. 
a chess board is for playing a game of chess.
Something you find on a boat is a keel.
determining the truth requires listening.
a ballerina can dance gracefully.
Something you find in a box is a present.
One of the things you do when you meditate is let your mind go.
lying is for cowards.
You are likely to find a boat in a river.
Something you might do while going to the mall is lose your wallet.
You can use a machine to count money.
Sometimes mailing a letter causes a bill to be paid.
If you want to flirt then you should tease.
Something that might happen when you get put on the stand is testimony.
Something that might happen when you surprise someone is they gasp.
Sometimes looking through a telescope causes amazement.
eyes are used for sight.
Something that might happen as a consequence of posting a message is getting a response.
some types of soup do not have rice in them.
Something that might happen when you commit murder is you feel remorse.
One of the things you do when you institute a civil action is hire a lawyer.
playing basketball is for sport.
Something that might happen as a consequence of standing in a queue is frustration.
wanting to know would make you want to attend a lecture.
Something that might happen while taking an exam is passing.
going to get a haircut is for grooming.
If you want to buy a hamburger then you should get some money.
steeplechase is a sport.
Fire extinguishers are often red.
Something that might happen while punching someone is bruising your knuckles.
You are likely to find a toy car in a child's room.
Rubber ducks float.
Sometimes getting to the front of the line causes angry people.
Something you find at the opera is actors.
Something you find at a gallery opening is snobs.
Something that might happen while making a phone call is a bad connection.
You are likely to find a heifer in a cow shed.
a president is for running the country.
destroying your enemy requires planning.
Something you might do while falling is enjoy the view.
The effect of standing in line is waiting.
a fire can heat a house.
a kitchenette is for cooking.
The last thing you do when you enjoy the company of your friends is say goodbye.
winning a baseball game requires skill.
talking with someone far away is for communication.
One of the things you do when you take final exams is panic.
Sometimes watching a film causes sleepiness.
a person doesn't want sore muscles.
Guns can hurt people.
Something that might happen when you attend a meeting is you drop your pencil.
You are likely to find a launching pad in NASA. 
lighting a match is for creating a flame.
A prisoner can 'escape from prison.
Something that might happen when you remember is you freak out.
a diet would make you want to eat healthily.
a person doesn't want to have gangrene. 
Something that might happen while entertaining someone is laughter.
Something you might do while seeing a band is sing.
Dessert is usually the last meal course.
washing clothes is for removing stains.
a school is for studying.
going off strike requires running out of money.
If you want to stand in line then you should locate the end of the line.
Something you find at the farmer's market is lettuce.
You would have a nervous breakdown because you have a lot of stress.
Easter would make you want to give a gift.
tape is sticky.
dirt would make you want to wash your clothes.
a hardware shop is for buying tools.
a person doesn't want endless repetition.
washing your hands is for cleaning dirt off them.
Something you find at the post office is a postal worker.
Sometimes swimming causes water to get into the ears.
You can use a queen to rule.
You are likely to find a snake in Oregon.
You are likely to find a potato in a salad.
Eyeglasses correct poor vision.
Something you might do while serving customers is smile nicely.
a wife is used for companionship.
Something you find at a demonstration is a presenter.
You would work because you want to make money.
You would see old things because you want to have fun.
love would make you want to paint.
A rocking chair can be used to rock a baby to sleep.
Something you need to do before you meet girls is take a shower.
competition would make you want to score a homer.
You would attend a meeting because you want to keep your job.
You are likely to find a passage in a book.
One of the things you do when you clean your clothes is put them into the washing machine.
Something that might happen when you talk to someone is you have fun.
You are likely to find a toy in a toy box.
hanging out at the bar is for meeting friends.
Something that might happen when you enjoy a film is you cry.
joy would make you want to sing.
You are likely to find a forklift in a warehouse.
You would have friends over because you are lonely.
In our materialistic society money is the measure of all things.
You can use a decanter to pour wine.
a car can enter the garage.
Something that might happen as a consequence of driving is getting to your destination.
having lunch is for meeting someone for business.
farmland is used for growing corn.
Something you find atop a mountain is mountain goats.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing the piano is making music.
grilling is a way to cook meat that usually involves putting a sauce on the meat.
apple pie is good.
If you want to play Frisbee then you should go to the beach.
If you want to stop your car then you should press the brake pedal.
One of the things you do when you mail a letter is stamp.
The first thing you do when you sing is open your mouth.
If you want to ride a horse then you should go to a stable.
sending a criminal to prison is for Punishment.
a beach towel is used for lying on.
You can use a building to house a business.
Something you might do while sitting on a chair is cross your legs.
You are likely to find a blowfish in France.
The first thing you do when you meet interesting people is introduce yourself.
jumping out of a window requires opening a window.
reading a book requires good lighting and the ability to read.
a library is used for lending books.
Something you might do while waking up in the morning is take a shower.
If you want to have a checkup then you should see a doctor.
You are likely to find a pond in the forest.
People need to help other people.
Something that might happen while bringing suit is a fee for assisting in collection.
Women are female.
rich people have a tendency to live in expensive houses.
Something that might happen when you communicate is an exchange of ideas.
a kitten is a cat.
If you want to sleep at night then you should go to bed.
Something you find at the theater is stale popcorn.
If you want to take a phone call then you should pick up the receiver. 
going for a run is for exercising.
Something that might happen while playing poker is someone cheats.
a person doesn't want urine.
singers often use microphones.
Something you find in a casino is flashing lights.
a blanket is for keeping warm.
Something you might do while driving is look in your mirror.
Sometimes making bread causes eating.
Something you find in water is air bubbles.
a bomb is for terror.
a ranch is for raising cattle.
You can use a hot tap to get hot water.
Reebok is a brand of shoes.
You are likely to find a robot in a factory.
One of the things you do when you bake a cake is preheat the oven.
a classroom chair is for students to sit in.
The effect of paying by credit card is delayed payment.
copulating is for fun.
a person wants a big house.
Banks are near parking.
One of the things you do when you have lunch is eat a sandwich.
a person doesn't want sunburn.
You are likely to find refuse in a dump.
Something you find at the beach is lovers.
Something you might do while skiing is ride a ski lift.
A guitar is not a kind of piano.
Sometimes looking through a telescope causes awe.
Something you need to do before you drink is be thirsty.
Something you find at the theater is performers.
eating requires chewing.
A biped is two-legged.
You would plan a vacation because you want transportation to go smoothly.
An activity a killer can do is kill someone.
the Milky Way is part of the universe.
Something that might happen while getting something is you enjoy it.
Something you need to do before you use a computer is plug it in.
Sometimes reading a book causes a better grade on your book review.
your nose can smell a flower.
a tuba is used for making music.
Lark is a bird.
a book is used for solving problems.
Die have six sides.
You can use a plane ticket to board a plane.
Something you find in a meadow is clover.
free time would make you want to play cards.
A boy can tie his shoes.
Something you might do while getting onto the web is check a forum.
You are likely to find a kitten in a pet shop. 
Sometimes going for a swim causes wet hair.
scoring a home run is for success.
curiosity would make you want to take an examination.
Something that might happen while taking the stand is you promise to tell the truth.
The postal service can ship that package.
You are likely to find a turnpike in Oklahoma.
Sometimes going to work causes a bad mood.
You would fight war because you want to protect your country.
a broken umbrella would make you want to repair an umbrella.
Something that might happen while having a nervous breakdown is you sweat.
a bicycle is for Racing.
You can use a bridge to cross over.
becoming inebriated is for fun.
Something you might do while going to school is talk about your dog.
Hands can hold things.
Sometimes playing tennis causes anger.
Fleas live on dogs.
Something you might do while working is whistle a song.
You are likely to find a fungus in humid places.
Sometimes contemplating causes a headache.
One million microseconds is a second.
needing to cook would make you want to light a fire.
People cannot walk through walls.
dying requires living first.
Something you find at a motel is towels.
You would watch a TV show because you want to waste time.
If you want to add up a column of numbers then you should get a calculator.
a better job would make you want to take a course.
a man can be happy.
If you want to answer questions then you should take a test.
Running with scissors can hurt you.
The effect of seeing art is rage.
Something you find at a neighbor's house is a pool.
You are likely to find a double bass in an orchestra.
Somewhere a cell can be is inside a body.
You would attend a rock concert because you want to break your ears.
You are likely to find waxed dental floss in a medicine cabinet.
Something you might do while remembering something is think in black and white.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in a picture.
Sometimes planning a vacation causes financial ruin.
Apple juice is sweet.
doing your job well would make you want to handle proposals.
Something you might do while loving someone else is love yourself.
You can use a doll to entertain a child.
Something you find in space is an asteroid.
Something you might do while swimming is hold a breath.
One of the things you do when you see your favorite show is smile.
Something that might happen as a consequence of seeing artifacts is appreciation of man.
If you want to receive a degree then you should go to university.
Sleeping at night requires going to sleep.
You would wait in line because you want your turn.
a good book would make you want to read.
A nut and a screw are used to fasten objects together.
studying is for preparing for testing.
the reaction of others would make you want to laugh at a joke.
Something you might do while creating art is paint a barn.
You can use a T-shirt to wear a message.
Something that might happen while scoring a home run is people cheer.
You can use a folder to store documents.
Something that might happen while growing vegetables is you pull weeds.
gardening would make you want to wash your hands.
You are likely to find a human in a theater.
Sugar is also not good for people.
Something you might do while playing is catch a ball.
a roof is sometimes covered with shingles.
Something that might happen as a consequence of driving a car is you stop at red lights.
People fly in airplanes.
Something you might do while seeing a particular program is stop paying attention.
You are likely to find a rosebush in a rose garden. 
Something that might happen as a consequence of cooking is you have a yummy meal.
a council is for talking about things.
Something you find in a drawer is pots.
Gasoline is called gas.
The effect of making it grow is nurturing.
a temple is a place where you can worship.
an airport is used for travel.
You are likely to find a scale in a bathroom.
your partner's infidelity would make you want to get a divorce.
An auditorium seats many people.
A poker player can deal the cards.
diving and driving are moving through space.
If you want to go to a movie then you should buy popcorn.
a statue can't move.
Sometimes getting to the front of the line causes anticipation.
people can visit places.
The effect of going outside for an evening is mosquito bites.
a wedding chapel is for shotgun weddings.
boredom would make you want to take in a film.
The effect of making a patchwork quilt is creating art.
an attaché case is used for carrying documents.
an arbiter can settle a dispute.
Something you might do while falling is break a bone.
Something you find on the shelf is paint.
receiving a degree requires a lot of classes.
Something that might happen as a consequence of reading is understanding.
Something that might happen while maintaining muscle strength is you take steroids.
Sometimes going into a trance causes confusion.
baking would make you want to follow a recipe.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying products is being short on money.
You would celebrate because you want to share your happiness.
The effect of shopping is less money.
You are likely to find a snake in Mississippi.
You are likely to find an attic in a home.
Something you might do while starting a family is buy a crib.
a foot is used for measuring things.
You would pass a course because you want to get a good job.
You would sew because you want to reattach a button.
Something you find in the air is rain.
You would bathe because you want to become clean.
Something you find in class is an exam.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying food is getting fat.
a handy man can make lawn furniture.
Something that might happen when you obstruct justice is you panic.
The effect of having a heart attack is possibly death.
proving your physical endurance requires running.
You are likely to find a hot faucet in a kitchen.
Something you find in a speaker is a magnet.
Something you find in the cupboard is a coffee mug.
punishing someone is for discouraging others from doing the same thing.
Something you find at the market is a cashier.
The effect of meeting people is having fun.
Something you find on the ground is moss.
eating an apple is for taste.
Something you might do while designing software is determine needs.
You can use a card to introduce yourself.
Something you find at a friend's house is furniture.
You can use a cello to play a quartet.
You can use a chess set to play.
You are likely to find a blowfish in Cuba.
Something that might happen when you go on a vacation is go hiking.
Kevin Costner is a movie actor.
the United States is used for protection.
You are likely to find wash and wear fabric in your own closet.
a closet for clothes is used for hanging belts.
Sometimes going to a film causes emotions.
a radiator is used for heating homes.
Something you find atop the refrigerator is gunk.
You can use a guitar to play a song.
a glass of water is for refreshment.
receiving a degree is for graduates.
Something you might do while cogitating is scratching your head.
a pocket notebook is used for keeping notes.
If you want to eat dinner then you should prepare food.
Something you find on the rug is fleas.
Something you find at Disneyland is a roller coaster.
hearts pump blood.
You are likely to find a dining room table in a furniture store.
If you want to hear music then you should turn up the radio.
If you want to program then you should take a class.
a stage is used for performing plays.
Something you find in the newspaper is cartoons.
Something you need to do before you go on the stage is rehearse.
Something you find in a jar is water.
an adult can cross the street.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in high places.
Something you need to do before you repair an umbrella is have a broken umbrella.
You are likely to find a ranch house in a ranch.
plants emit carbon dioxide.
A son is male.
Hitting another person is bad.
The capital city of New Mexico is Santa Fe.
Something you need to do before you play chess is set up the pieces.
a knife is used for slicing bread.
Something you might do while playing basketball is scoring baskets.
Something you need to do before you take the car for a drive is gather the passengers.
Plants need water and sunlight to grow.
The first thing you do when you die is stop breathing.
horseshoes are for luck.
Something you might do while lying is blush.
a block of wood can wedge a door.
The effect of going to a performance is being entertained.
bass is a species of fish.
Curiosity would make you want to find information.
a flask is used for holding wine.
You are likely to find gold in a mine.
Something you might do while forgiving someone is kiss them.
gaining more land is for Investment.
Something you find at a swimming pool is a place to dive.
a grenade is for Blowing up things.
all mammals have two eyes.
Something that might happen when you play cards is you win money.
If you want to play football then you should join a team.
Something that might happen while burying the cat is sadness.
a person doesn't want to be upset.
writing a story is for Entertainment.
Coffee keeps me awake.
Parents play with their children.
Mustard is often put on hot dogs.
The last thing you do when you use a VCR is turn it off.
You are likely to find a ledger in an accountant's office.
You would howl with laughter because a joke was very funny.
If you want to hear singing then you should go to a concert.
You would listen to music because you want to relax.
a flower is alive.
If you want to take a walk then you should bring a dog.
Researching something would make you want to go on the Internet. 
You are likely to find a toy marble in a toy store.
You are likely to find a shark in a pool hall.
Sometimes going jogging causes you to get out of breath.
praying requires talking to God.
doing some exercises is for good health.
fish can be eaten.
Curry is often spicy.
Something you find at a grocery store is canned food.
You are likely to find a ventilation system in a building.
Watermelon has black seeds.
If you want to tickle then you should find someone to tickle.
Students sit on classroom chairs.
Something you find in the office is a paper clip. 
A stopwatch can measure time.
Something that might happen when you use a computer is using a mouse.
The last thing you do when you sew is tie a knot.
You are likely to find a basketball in a basketball game.
Hot weather would make you want to go for a swim.
Something that might happen while going off strike is going back to work.
A deli sells sandwiches.
You are likely to find a tower in a city.
sitting on a chair is for resting your legs.
trash is for taking out.
One of the things you do when you comfort a friend is listen.
If you want to prepare for a vote then you should read about candidates.
a station wagon has lots of room.
visiting a museum requires looking at the exhibits.
a backyard is for having parties.
Liberal is the opposite of conservative.
Something you find at a bar is a waitress.
You can use a motherboard to build a computer.
Something you find at a hockey game is idiots.
You are likely to find tanning lotion in a beach bag.
seeing a movie is for fun.
You are likely to find the Indian Ocean in Asia.
You are likely to find a mouse in a dirty house.
You are likely to find a runway in a military base.
You are likely to find a brass family in an orchestra.
children can learn the alphabet.
dogs are blindly faithful to their owners.
brains can think about many things.
Coffee is good in the morning.
Something you find at a home is love.
Persimmon is fruit.
You are likely to find a shoulder bag in a department store.
a person doesn't want stagnation.
You are likely to find a kite in a toy store.
Something you need to do before you fix a computer is find the problem.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in a circus.
Something you find in the mail is a letter from your parents.
Something you find with a search engine is a list of websites.
If you want to comfort a friend then you should pat their shoulder.
Oceans contain salt.
You are likely to find a rosebush in a front yard.
The effect of stopping your car is stepping on the brake.
The last thing you do when you exercise is drink water.
reading is one way to learn.
The last thing you do when you use a television is turn it off.
The American flag is red, white and blue.
The first thing you do when you post a message is type it.
a quarterback can pass a football.
Something you find on the table is salt and pepper.
You would score a home run because you want to win.
conquering your opponent is for winning.
Ice hockey is a dangerous sport.
Life preservers float.
You are not likely to find a beaver on or in a tree.
the brim is part of a hat.
Something that might happen as a consequence of enjoying the day is having a good day.
streams flow downhill.
a person doesn't want to be foolish.
Bats can hang upside down.
One of the things you do when you go to a film is sit down.
hair is part of your head.
If you want to mail a letter then you should buy a stamp.
Something you might do while playing ball is catch.
Radiation is bad.
Canoeing is a sport.
You are likely to find an one person chair in a dining room.
Sometimes doing a crossword puzzle causes frustration.
Something you find in a forest is bushes.
You are likely to find a yard in a city.
You are likely to find a playroom in a house.
Something you find at the theater is thespians.
Beer is an alcoholic drink.
Something that might happen while seeing exhibits is enjoyment.
Cabinets are commonly made of wood.
Surfing is a sport played in the water.
One of the things you do when you buy a house is pay a down payment.
plants use photosynthesis to get energy from the sun.
committing to memory is for learning something.
Something you might do while advancing into battle is pray.
You are likely to find a corner shop in the corner.
The effect of looking through a telescope is seeing something that is far away.
You can use a wedding ring to propose a marriage.
You are likely to find cord in a hardware store.
One of the things you do when you eat in a fast food restaurant is get fat.
a tub is used for baths.
Hot dogs are sandwiches eaten at baseball games.
You are likely to find a neighborhood map in city hall.
apples are good for your health.
a coach seat is used for sitting.
People work to make money.
You are likely to find a gazelle in a game preserve.
tape measures are tools.
food is edible.
a glass of water is used for drinking.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in a cage.
You can use a hotel room to rest.
You are likely to find a movie ticket in a theater.
Something you might do while shopping is compare cost per unit.
A person can be talking to someone else.
Tornadoes are a form of weather.
A mother can quiet a baby.
MS-DOS uses a hierarchical directory structure.
If you want to view a film at home then you should turn on the TV.
Something you find at a funeral is a body.
Something you find in a closet is a belt.
Something that might happen when you go to get a haircut is your hair is shorter.
If you want to add up numbers then you should learn math.
You are likely to find a sidewalk in a city.
tires are a part of a car.
cigarettes cause lung cancer.
dogs are evil.
Something that might happen as a consequence of meeting people is love.
Something you find in a garage is a freezer.
nothing is nothing.
You are likely to find a town in the countryside.
Sometimes beginning work causes excitement.
An activity God can do is love.
a balloon can fly.
You would go to a Laundromat because you want to do your laundry.
walking is for getting somewhere.
You are likely to find a disk in a CD player.
a seafood restaurant is for eating.
You are likely to find a movie in a movie theater.
If you want to read then you should have written materials.
Something you find at an airport is terrorists.
Something you find in the freezer is a frozen dinner.
You are likely to find a health food store in a city.
Something you find on a freeway is a speed limit sign.
Something you find in a meadow is a deer.
Plankton are generally not twenty feet high.
You are likely to find a fungus in a hollow log.
You are likely to find an attaché case in an office.
One of the things you do when you take a walk is put on shoes.
a tennis court has a net.
A Cadillac is a brand of car. Owning one grants prestige.
Something you need to do before you drink alcohol is buy the alcohol.
You are likely to find a piccolo in an orchestra.
Something you find at Disneyland is cast members.
Something that might happen while hitting the bottle is the bottle breaks.
You would get up early because you have to go to work.
You can use fire to cook.
Something you find in a cabinet is a set of dishes.
You are likely to find a mirror in a car.
You can use a bean to grow.
Something you find in a casino is chips.
Sometimes playing a game with your friends causes happiness.
a house has a floor.
a teaspoon is used for eating.
You are likely to find a hair on ones' head.
You can use a passageway to walk.
a metal rod is for conducting electricity.
You are likely to find a heart in all mammals.
An endoplasmic reticulum is part of an animal cell.
People enjoy music.
Something you find at an airport is airline representatives.
If you want to move a car then you should release the brakes.
Months of preparation would make you want to run a marathon.
some people do not celebrate Christmas.
Something you find at an apartment is a table.
Sometimes driving your car causes you to be on time.
You are likely to find a gazelle in south Africa. 
people sleep in hotels.
Something you find in the chemistry lab is a Petri dish.
If you want to have a bath then you should run the water.
clothes are for wearing.
a person wants appropriate empathy.
One of the things you do when you love someone is be kind to them.
Something that might happen when you give assistance is thanks.
You are likely to find a sky in a planetarium.
watching a movie is for fun.
A carnivore wants to eat meat.
Something you find in a forest is a pine tree.
penguins are birds that do not fly.
You are likely to find a movie in the cinema.
If you want to test the car then you should take it for a drive.
Water is essential for human life.
giving a plug is for advertisers.
Something you find in the ocean is large waves.
You are likely to find a grape in wine.
sails use wind to move things.
If you want to play the piano then you should practice.
a wine cellar is for properly storing wine.
a wall is made of bricks.
a dog is for a pet.
Committing a crime is breaking the law.
Something that might happen as a consequence of getting a job is earning a salary.
a person wants to understand computers.
Water is a drink.
The last thing you do when you jog is stop running.
Something you find in the universe is matter.
gloves are worn on hands.
a teaspoon is for measuring.
Fruits and vegetables come from plants.
A hot dog is not alive.
Somewhere a couch can be is in the den.
stamps use ink.
Lightning can kill people.
Something you find at a gallery opening is ribbon.
You would create something to help other people because you want to help them.
You are likely to find a pizzeria in a mall.
Rain would make you want to take the bus.
politicians can be corrupt.
Garbage smells bad.
Something you find at a fast-food restaurant is poor people.
Somewhere an automobile can be is at the curb.
If you want to surf the web then you should use a browser.
a person wants gifts at Christmas. 
You are likely to find a toothbrush in a mouth.
People eat seaweed in sushi.
Something you find at a Internet cafe is coffee.
The first thing you do when you dream is fall asleep.
an umbrella is for keeping dry.
Something that might happen when you wait tables is you take a customer's order.
Technology is great.
Something you find at an opera is the phantom.
a person wants to enjoy the friendship of others.
You are likely to find a reception area in an office.
a border divides two countries.
You would attend a rock concert because you enjoy rock music.
Plants don't move around.
Something you find in the universe is a meteor.
Something you find in a computer is memory.
Something that might happen when you drive a car is have a traffic accident.
If you want to attend class then you should enroll.
a person can stay home.
boats can be very large.
Something that might happen when you get something is you have fun.
a person wants to meet Mot the Hoople.
Something you find on a pizza is olives.
champagne has bubbles in it.
The effect of driving your car is not global warming.
If you want to fly in an airplane then you should buy an airplane ticket.
You are likely to find a stage in an auditorium.
Something that might happen when you score a homer is cheering crowds.
Tinker bell lives in never-never land.
A horn is part of a car.
people do not live in oceans.
You are likely to find a hallway in the house.
Something you find at a soccer game is spectators.
Something you find on a pizza is mushrooms.
You are likely to find a hot table in the kitchen.
Something that might happen as a consequence of cleaning your room is a clean room.
If you want to lose consciousness then you should stop breathing.
If you want to begin work then you should apply for the job.
dartboards are round.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going into a coma is dying.
watching a TV show is for zoning out.
You would go to sleep because you are tired.
seeing a band is for Enjoying their music.
Something you find in a box is a gift.
watching TV is for entertainment.
a dog can bring the newspaper.
people watch TV together.
You would clean clothing because it is dirty.
a newspaper is made of paper.
writing requires thinking.
You would find a lost item because you want to use it.
You are likely to find a shark in a tank.
You are likely to find a potato in a potato bin.
Children enjoy playing games.
Something you find in bed is a lazy boyfriend.
One of the things you do when you improve your image is buy new clothes.
Horses are beautiful.
Something that might happen when you go on a vacation is go to the cabin.
Something you find in a forest is detritus.
Something you find at Disneyland is over-priced rides.
watching TV is for education.
tickling is for making someone laugh.
Something that might happen when you climb a mountain is you fall down.
The last thing you do when you play lacrosse is take a shower.
oranges have seed.
Rooms have doors and windows.
Heat is a form of energy.
An eye is an optical sensor for living beings.
Something you find in a country is a leader.
The voting record of a politician is a matter of public interest.
If you want to go jogging then you should put on your jogging suit.
Something that might happen as a consequence of eating in a restaurant is food poisoning.
Something you find in a jar is pennies.
Hardhats can be used to protect your head.
a clothing store is used for shopping.
Something you find in the mail box is circulars.
a person wants to have a meaningful life.
The first thing you do when you get onto the web is check email.
If you want to listen then you should shut up.
A person can call another person.
some people have brown hair.
a lock is for securing your valuables.
Something that might happen while surfing is you catch a wave.
You are likely to find a hole in a donut.
The effect of visiting a museum is learning.
programs control computers.
You are likely to find a creature in any ocean.
Jellyfish live in the water.
If you want to watch television then you should turn on a TV.
Something you find at your house is your possessions.
You are likely to find a border in country.
Something you find at a fraternity house is young men.
If you want to act in a play then you should go to an audition.
Giraffe is an animal.
Something that might happen while making friends is falling in love.
Something you find on a pizza is pineapple.
a lawyer can state a case.
The effect of howling with laughter is stomach pains.
You are likely to find a gate leg table in a dining room.
Something you might do while watching a movie is be quiet.
You would read because you want information.
a person wants to be happy.
Cassowary is a bird.
A mockingbird is a kind of bird.
Sometimes seeing your favorite show causes you to be happy.
Something you find at a mall is a food court.
a emerald is a precious stone.
a person wants to fly safely.
playing ball is for recreation.
Only crazy people want to go to war.
Something you find at a drive-in movie is a date.
email is a kind of communication.
If you want to do some exercises then you should stretch first.
Life simplification can make a profound change in a person.
Something that might happen when you design software is a bug.
Something that might happen while seeing a story is learning.
a toll road is used for traveling on.
Something you find at a sporting event is many people.
Something you find under the bed is dirt.
If you want to do housework then you should clean the house.
Something you find at a train station is teller.
a chest is for protecting internal organs.
A radio emits sounds.
A tree has roots.
Something that might happen while living a life is you have children.
an emerald is green.
If you want to lose consciousness then you should hold my breath.
Destruction is the opposite of creation.
Something you find at a hockey game is violence.
Something you find at a roadblock is a barricade.
Something you might do while procreating is transmit a disease.
If you want to have a pee then you should go to a bathroom.
People compete with each other.
You are likely to find a marmoset in Africa.
beer can cloud your judgment.
Something you find at an airport is a metal detector.
Something you find at the front door is the morning paper.
playing cards is for passing time.
Something that might happen as a consequence of watching television is being entertained.
Americans are often unreliable.
DNA is used to make proteins.
Something you need to do before you fiddle is get a violin.
If you want to find information then you should look for it.
Something you find at a shop is clothing.
Leaves can cover the ground.
a dead person does not breathe.
Something that might happen when you run a marathon is run.
You are likely to find a delicatessen in New York.
Fred Astaire dances very well.
Light bulbs break easily.
Something that might happen when you exercise is fatigue.
Some trees shed their leaves in the fall.
A person can plan a vacation.
The last thing you do when you attend class is leave class.
a person wants to live a long life.
Music is also a form of expression.
The earth revolves on an axis.
Something you find in the countryside is trees.
Something you find on the subway is seats.
humans have one mouth.
You would eat a hamburger because you want to satisfy your hunger.
You would run twenty-six miles because you want to win a marathon.
losing weight requires a diet.
a person wants a better job.
You are likely to find a fortune in a fortune cookie.
Some animal are cute.
going to sleep is for relaxing.
Something you find on a roof is asphalt tiles.
time is linear.
Kelp is seaweed.
writing a poem is for expressing an idea.
Something you find in the backseat of a car is a box of tissues.
Something that might happen while playing baseball is hitting a home run. 
IBM stands for International Business Machines.
riding a bicycle is for health.
One of the things you do when you run is move your legs.
You would smoke because you are addicted.
You can use a corner grocery to buy groceries.
If you want to go to another place in the same city cheaply then you should use public transport.
You are likely to find a ground floor in an office building.
listening to the radio requires having ears.
Vienna is the capital of Austria.
Ushers can seat audience members.
A T-shirt is made of knitted fabric.
water is not air.
Something you find in a boat is a person.
If you want to wait for someone then you should be patient.
You are likely to find a crab in a crab cake.
If you want to drive your car then you should get a driver's license.
a woodwind is used for music.
You are likely to find a small dog in a big house.
An ant is a type of insect.
A masochist can subject herself to pain.
a person wants cake.
Sometimes playing a game with your friends causes laughter.
You are likely to find a ticket box in a theater.
Something you find on a desk is returned mail.
The first thing you do when you design software is create a prototype.
checking vital signs is for a nurse.
You are likely to find a strip mall in a city.
If you want to learn about the world then you should travel.
a watch is a clock.
Puppies have bad breath.
a check book is for writing checks.
a person can state a fact.
running is a way.
reading a letter requires the ability to read.
Sometimes jogging causes shin splints.
Something you find under the bed is lost items.
a supermarket is used for getting bananas.
Something you might do while taking final exams is cheat.
Something you need to do before you open a business is get a business license.
Some cartoons express political ideas.
Sometimes creating art causes pleasure.
A road can be paved.
Something you find at an opera is tickets.
Lunchtime would make you want to have food.
a hot faucet is used for washing dishes.
Something you need to do before you drive your car is start it.
The first thing you do when you use a computer is boot it up.
a person wants to receive gifts.
Something that might happen when you go to a movie is you are entertained.
a politician wants power.
Rheingold arborvitae is a plant.
going for a walk is for exercise. 
You can use a stranger to act as a witness.
attending a rock concert is for having fun.
You are likely to find a barbershop in a town.
People keep fish as pets.
people eat dinner in the evening.
a tourniquet is for stopping the flow of blood.
An inspiration would make you want to write a story.
a piano is a percussion instrument.
a pacifier is used to keep a baby from crying.
having a date would make you want to go to the hairdresser.
Afghanistan is largely a tribal society.
You are likely to find a fungus in your toes.
a jar is made of clay.
a steak house is for eating dinner.
Brazil is in South America.
Stress would make you want to plan a vacation.
Something you find in the sewers is rats.
A mech is a large robot controlled from inside, featured in most Giant Robot anime series.
A friend can return your phone calls.
learning a language is for communicating with people in other countries.
You are likely to find a ranch in Texas.
Something that might happen when you watch TV is eating popcorn.
Seventy percent of the surface of the earth is water.
Something that might happen when you shout at the top of your voice is you lose your voice.
buying something for a loved one is for a surprise.
Something you find at a fast-food restaurant is a meal.
Something you find at your house is art work.
a chainsaw is for cutting down trees.
Ducks make a quacking sound.
Work can be boring.
Something you find at a fast-food restaurant is a short order cook.
Something that might happen while examining a thing is you gain knowledge.
a dirty dish is for putting in the dishwasher.
a soldier is part of an army.
You are likely to find neck wear in a tie store.
Something that might happen as a consequence of socializing is you become popular.
Something that might happen as a consequence of opening a business is bankruptcy.
the temporal lobe is part of the brain.
a person doesn't want to be embarrassed. 
Sometimes reaching an advantage causes you to win.
You would move a car because it was blocking another car.
Something you find in the cellar is a spider.
meeting girls is for love.
You would bury the cat because it was dead.
a trombone is used for music.
Something you find in a plane is lights.
Something you find at a bookstore is fancy wall calendars.
Metal is a type of music.
You are likely to find a county highway in a map.
Zippers are used to fasten pants.
seeing artifacts is for Learning about the past.
Sometimes meeting a friend causes happiness.
Something you find on a desktop is dust.
You are likely to find a head in a morgue.
A worm is a program that copies itself from one disk drive to another, or by sending itself through email.
You are likely to find a table in a dining room.
Something you find under a bridge is the homeless.
Prisons are failed social-political experiments.
Something that might happen as a consequence of dying is death.
players can lose a game.
Something that might happen while printing on the printer is using paper.
Something you find at a hotel is an elevator.
Something you find in the cellar is old stuff.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having a nervous breakdown is hospitalization.
A person doesn't want to freeze.
The last thing you do when you buy presents is wrap them.
having an epileptic fit is for epileptics.
Sometimes love causes deaths.
having a date would make you want to meet a friend.
losing consciousness is for passing out.
a checkbook holder is used for holding a checkbook.
Cannabis has a dramatic impact on controlling patients' pain.
You are likely to find a fox in a fox hole.
Dogs come in many breeds.
a person wants lots of space.
The Internet can find a website.
Something you find in good garden soil is earth worms.
people like to sit in chairs.
The moon is not made of green cheese.
The effect of flirting is getting the attention of someone.
If you want to program then you should write code.
a babysitter can mind the children.
a movie would make you want to wait in line.
Something you need to do before you go to the store is leave your house.
The Internet is modern.
Something you find in the mail box is postcards.
Something you find in a closet is a book.
a lawyer can settle a dispute.
A man can be in love.
Marvin Minsky is an expert on artificial intelligence.
playing baseball is fun.
Something you find at a meeting is papers.
Rob is a nickname for Robert.
An advertising agency can market a product.
If you want to go to a restaurant then you should get in the car.
people can eat potatoes.
A gate can allow selected people to pass by.
Something you find at a friend's house is a bathroom.
tortoises have shells.
conductors of orchestras use batons.
Death is a part of life.
a CD is for Storing data.
a person doesn't want schizophrenia.
Something you find at a car show is car enthusiasts.
Height is a spatial dimension.
You are likely to find a college in a large city.
Something you find on a desktop is wallpaper.
having food is for pleasure.
Hydrogen sulphide is an important impurity in natural gas.
beauty is only skin deep.
movers can box belongings.
Chess is a complex game of deception.
You are likely to find a kitten in a barn.
MIT stands for the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
If you want to go on the stage then you should climb the stairs.
a prison is a place where guilty people are sent.
people can touch other people.
a key is for locking a door.
You are likely to find a cow in a dairy.
The first thing you do when you clean clothing is put them in the washing machine.
going to the store is for buying food.
A membrane is a thin sheet.
The last thing you do when you hear music is turn off radio.
Some people are janitors.
a calculator is for calculating numbers.
a tub is used for holding butter.
winter is a very cold season.
The sun sets every evening.
a person doesn't want to get hurt.
You are likely to find information in a computer.
Something you find at the front door is guest.
a Morgan horse is a special breed.
beer is carbonated.
An activity something can do is an act.
killing someone requires hatred.
skating is for having fun.
a watch is solid.
A gate is an external door.
The first thing you do when you clean your room is go to your room.
You are likely to find a character in a play in a play.
If you want to open a gift then you should unwrap it.
a man is not a kind of body.
You would live a life because you have no other choice.
You are likely to find a weasel in the country.
bob Dylan playing guitar.
Something you find at a roadblock is a sign.
The queen is old.
Something you find at church is offerings.
A worker can stock the shelves.
Something you find in a forest is undergrowth.
Clothing styles change over the years.
Something you might do while going to the zoo is visit the monkey house.
You are likely to find a drawer in a dresser.
software is program.
The first thing you do when you eat a hamburger is salivate.
Something that might happen while cleaning clothing is using the washing machine.
people can wear jeans.
Art is a way of expressing human emotions.
You are likely to find a zombie in a movie.
If you want to plan a vacation then you should visit a travel agent.
If you want to eat an apple then you should pick up an apple.
a towel is for cleaning up messes.
a candle emits light.
Something that might happen while viewing a film at home is being entertained.
lakes contain water.
a large container is for holding a lot of things.
If you want to stay alive then you should breathe.
a baritone is a male singer with a low voice.
Farmland is for farms.
taking an oath is for promising.
Sushi is Japanese The last thing you do when you maintain muscle strength is lift weights.
Automobiles sink in water.
a choker is a necklace that is worn tightly around one's neck.
scales can be used to compare the weights of objects.
Something you might do while playing a guitar is tune the guitar.
You are likely to find a bureau in a city.
Contract is an agreement enforceable at law.
a rabbit can move fast.
A glove has separate chambers for each finger and thumb.
Something you find at the market is shopping carts.
shampoo is used for cleaning.
Sailboats use the wind for power.
A purse hold money.
Backgammon board.
peace is a worthwhile goal but it is not free and doesn't happen because somebody simply wants it.
performing is for entertaining people.
A whale is a type of mammal.
language can be taught.
Something you find on the moon is sunshine.
a flame is hot.
Something that might happen when you get wet is you get a chill.
You are likely to find mountains in Afghanistan You are likely to find a ficus in a plant store.
a pig can find truffles.
Something that might happen while having an asthma attack is someone has trouble breathing.
gerbil requires sawdust.
People watch the news on television.
a director is a person who directs a movie.
A kitchen is part of some dwellings.
You would write a poem because you are in love.
You are likely to find cargo in a ship.
You are likely to find an electronics store in a shopping mall.
Gerbils is not a kind of vehicle.
You would meet people because you want friends.
winning a baseball game is for having fun.
Something you find on the porch is a swing.
a soldier is part of life.
a person doesn't want to wait in line for too long.
Something you find in the sky is an unidentified flying object.
humming birds are very small.
gerbil requires friends.
A washer washes clothes.
Something you find at a park is a park ranger.
Something you might do while walking the dog is scoop poop.
You are likely to find a neuron in the brain.
Sometimes changing your appearance causes people to look at you differently.
taking an examination is for demonstrating knowledge about a subject.
fruit come in many colors.
Something you find at a shop is goods to be purchased.
You would get a job because you want money.
Something you might do while cleaning your clothes is use laundry detergent.
Notes create music.
Good music comes from a creative mind.
a trombone is a wind instrument.
a mailbox is for sending packages.
lions are wild animals.
a mouthwash is for cleaning your mouth.
a sheet of paper is used for writing letters.
People write.
Something you find at a gas station is gasoline.
Something you might do while dating is kiss.
The Northwest Territories are part of Canada.
Most children love puppies and kittens.
toilets get clogged.
Berlin is the capital of Germany.
fencing requires a sword.
Pens use ink.
people like flowers because they are pretty.
You are likely to find coffee on or in a mug.
a basketball is for playing a game.
You are likely to find a chair in the living room.
rubber is a polymer.
conquering a nation requires weapons.
The first thing you do when you meet girls is introduce yourself.
your aunts are part of your family.
Plants need water and sunlight to survive.
You are likely to find a notebook in class.
You are likely to find a cow in the county fair.
Somewhere a home can be is in the city.
coffee is addictive.
You are likely to find a cottage in a village.
a person wants to be surprised.
You would maintain muscle strength because you want to be strong.
penguins are a type of bird that can not fly.
humans walk on two legs.
You would have a physical examination because you are sick.
Something you find at the repair shop is a repairman.
Toothpaste comes in tubes.
going to a performance requires money.
If you want to eat an apple then you should find an apple.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in a backyard.
Good chairs give back support.
You can use a cinema to watch a movie.
You can use a revolver to shoot at a target.
a person doesn't want a thorn in his foot.
drinking and driving is bad.
Something that might happen as a consequence of knitting is arthritis.
darts can be thrown.
You would play games because you are bored.
apple juice is refreshing.
a stick is used for fuel.
POLISHED SURFACES REFLECT LIGHT.
criminals can break laws.
a return ticket is for going home.
men can row boats.
the American flag has stars and stripes on it.
Something you might do while walking is put one foot in front of the other.
You are likely to find a pitchfork comb in an afro hairdo.
An eatery is a restaurant.
Portugal is a country.
a person wants to know everything.
a voter can voice his opinion.
The Internet is sometimes very slow.
A building can be built with bricks.
broccoli is a green vegetable.
People buy tools at a hardware store.
You would go jogging because you want to exercise.
A boxer can strike his opponent.
One of the things you do when you use a VCR is watch TV.
You would go on the stage because you are a musician.
Vancouver is in Canada.
Something you find at a church is spiritual instruction.
Light bulbs need electricity to work.
A marker is a pen with a fat tip.
A man is a male.
Something you find in the countryside is wildflowers.
You are likely to find a bus shelter in the city.
You can use a stop to stop.
A castle is probably made of stone.
a person wants good weather.
a gallery is for displaying art.
You are likely to find a carry on bag in an airplane.
An armchair is a good place to sit and read a book.
You are likely to find a kitchen utensil in the kitchen.
Saskatoon is in Canada.
You would pay by check because you don't have cash.
The last thing you do when you run after the ball is catch the ball.
Something you need to do before you have friends over is clean the house.
The last thing you do when you have a pee is wash your hands.
Something that might happen as a consequence of creating something to help other people is making money.
If you want to gain more land then you should buy some land.
The effect of pleasing your parents is satisfaction.
a toll road is for driving.
You would have a pee because your bladder is full.
You would watch television because you want to relax.
One of the things you do when you wage war is fight.
a love seat is used for snuggling.
Something you find at the MIT Media Lab is geeks.
remembering a phone number requires memory.
Canada is a large country with cold winters.
buying a house is for living in it.
running in a marathon requires stamina.
Something you find at the gym is a medicine ball.
Something you need to do before you jump rope is have a jump rope.
You are likely to find a grape in vine.
If you want to water a plant then you should find water.
Something you find in a forest is fallen leaves.
You would play baseball because you want exercise.
Something you find on a desktop is a clipboard.
Most mammals have four legs.
Baltimore is a city.
Beer is fizzy.
The effect of cooking dinner is eating dinner.
Something you might do while traveling is carry luggage.
The core of the earth is molten rock.
Something you need to do before you attend a lecture is get dressed.
Something you find at home is a chess set.
A nail is used to hold things together.
You are likely to find a folding shower door in a hardware store.
Elmer's glue is a brand name of glue.
sounds are sometimes loud.
doing the housework is for cleanliness.
An up quark is part of a proton.
The effect of judging someone is feeling bad.
A suspension is part of a transportation vehicle.
Something you find at a movie is coke.
BSE is a disease.
You are likely to find a projectile in a gun.
All toilets break eventually.
A sole is part of a shoe.
A basket can be used to hold things.
Something you find at a bookstore is people.
You are likely to find woods in a countryside.
love is important.
Something you find under your bed is socks.
hunger pains would make you want to eat an apple.
a watch is a chronometer.
A person can blow up a balloon.
Somewhere jewelry can be is in a safe.
A friend is a friend forever.
You are likely to find a doll in a dolls house. 
You are likely to find dynamite in a coal mine.
an arm is used for holding something down.
You are likely to find a farmhouse in a rural area.
Iceland is an island.
Something that might happen when you judge someone is alienate them.
a doll is used for playing pretend games.
You can use tanning lotion to prevent skin cancer.
Something you find in a closet is a moth.
Anarchism is an ultimate projection of both liberalism and socialism.
You are likely to find a transit ticket in your pocket.
a coin is used for flipping.
tongues are used to taste food.
a banjo is used for strumming.
Sometimes going for a swim causes fear.
The last thing you do when you buy a beer is drink it.
One of the things you do when you have a heart attack is go to the hospital.
Children can honor parents.
Something that might happen as a consequence of memorizing is a headache.
The effect of going for a drive is seeing the countryside.
Something you find in a jungle is a vine.
Honey is a golden yellow color.
You are likely to find a mailbox in a hardware store.
HMAS Manoora is an Australian troop ship.
Predators are animals which eat other animals.
paper is for recording information.
A person doesn't want to be rude.
Something you find in the backseat of a car is a child's car seat.
Something you find in a cabinet is curios.
You can use a shopping basket to carry products.
People pay bills.
Jay is a bird.
hanging out at the bar is for fun.
Installing an alarm is a good investment for your peace of mind.
You are likely to find a ball bearing in a machine.
Solace is a self-help group for widows and widowers.
a person wants to have diamonds.
Gathering lilacs in the spring is a pleasant garden task.
Something that might happen while having lunch is burping.
One kind of musical instrument is a concertina.
Something you might do while cleaning the house is vacuum the carpet.
a poem is art.
Skiing is a fun sport.
Pineapple is a citrus fruit.
One of the things you do when you play a game of chess is plan the strategy.
a moment is a short, indefinite interval of time.
Something you might do while punishing someone is hurt them.
Something you find on the surface of the moon is meteor craters.
Another word for a central processor is a CPU.
Something you need to do before you ride a bicycle is check the tires.
going to the hairdresser requires Money.
You are likely to find a stage door in a theater.
Rapid combustion is an explosion.
You are likely to find a bag in a supermarket.
You would go to a Laundromat because you didn't own a washer.
You are likely to find an I-beam in a building.
a pen is a powerful tool in an oppressive country.
Something you find in a waste bin is paper.
A horseshoe is a curved piece of metal nailed to a horse's hoof.
If you want to go to a party then you should take a shower.
a dog is used for guarding property.
A hairdresser cuts your hair.
Something you find in the mail is an electric bill.
Dogs bury bones.
Some flowers are white.
Problem solving requires thinking.
twisters are dangerous.
You are likely to find pencil shavings in a pencil sharpener.
Elephants can't jump.
a child can read a book.
Borrowers can return books to the library.
playing games requires skill.
Something that might happen while eating a cookie is crumbs.
Random events cannot be predicted.
Something you find in a house is plumbing.
Ontario is a province in Canada.
loneliness would make you want to talk with someone far away.
A burglar can case the joint.
People buy things at a store.
doing some exercises requires determination.
Magic is illusion.
a doorknob can be used for opening a door.
You would run after the ball because you want to catch it.
reading is for enjoyment.
eating can be satisfying.
Rap is a popular form of music for some people but most people find it annoying.
You can use a coffee cup to hold pens.
A safety pin is a type of fastener that is usually used on clothing.
Bagels Taste Good With Cream Cheese.
Parachuting is a dangerous activity.
An activity adult can do is work.
mule is a cross between horse and donkey.
some balloons are filled with helium.
both salad and pizza are food.
lying requires imagination.
a person doesn't want to hear very loud noises.
an oven is used for baking food.
You are likely to find a computer user in his home.
A try is another name for an effort.
You are likely to find a bishop in a cathedral.
a person wants to have clear skin.
making bread requires flour.
Something that might happen while meeting people is introducing yourself.
You are likely to find coffee on or in Seattle.
You are likely to find a boarding room in a city.
French toast is not a kind of dessert.
You would breathe because you want oxygen. 
Communism is a type of political ideology.
To understand the event "Dwight was unhappy.", it is important to know that People are conscious.
Signus X-1 is a kind of black hole.
If you want to eat then you should cook.
If you want to comfort a friend then you should listen to them.
Trees need water to live.
Some flowers are purple.
You are likely to find a cash bill in a store.
You are likely to find cloth in a bedroom.
Cows can not run fast.
Something that might happen while opening a bag of chips is it rips.
men's shoe is a kind of shoe.
an animal is for food.
Something you need to do before you print a document is put paper in the loading tray of the printer.
Something you find in the office is a copier.
The effect of learning is learning something new.
a person wants a comfortable bed.
Washington is part of the United States of America.
Criminals often use guns to commit crimes.
You are likely to find a post office in town.
You are likely to find cotton in the medicine cabinet.
You are likely to find trash in a container.
The effect of cleaning your room is having a happy mother.
slavery is bad.
An activity an opera singer can do is sing an aria.
Something that might happen as a consequence of applying for a job is less sleep.
going to the pub is for meeting friends.
Something you might do while stopping your car is apply pressure to the brake.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having a conversation is talking.
a piano is used for performing music.
Something you find on your desk is note pads.
a hairpin is used for holding hair back.
a T-shirt is a clothes.
an appointment book is for scheduling.
You can use fire to cook food.
You would go to a movie because it can be emotional.
You are likely to find a bazaar in India.
a person wants to feel they are making a difference.
Something you might do while reading the newspaper is eat breakfast.
recording something is for saving something for the future.
a showroom is used for displaying cars.
If you want to eat a cookie then you should put a cookie in your mouth.
You are likely to find a garden hose in a garden.
a person wants to win the lottery.
Something you might do while dreaming is fly.
Something you find at the market is a box of cereal.
Something you find in a suitcase is bras.
hunger would make you want to eat in a fast food restaurant.
giving a gift requires generosity a person can master skills.
Sometimes going to a movie causes excitement.
a French restaurant is for eating French food.
If you want to play chess then you should get a chess set.
The effect of laughing at a joke is fun.
You can use a saucepan to boil eggs.
If you want to buy presents for others then you should go to a store.
a person doesn't want deception.
making a patchwork quilt is for passing the time.
You are likely to find a first class airline seat in a 747.
reading to your children is for entertaining them.
Hats are worn on heads.
a cafe is for meeting friends.
a club is for dance.
islands may be small.
You are likely to find ink in a fountain pen.
One of the things you do when you play a game of chess is move the pieces.
Something that might happen as a consequence of adding up a column of numbers is getting a total.
an apple can be eaten.
Something you might do while eating an apple is choke.
Something you find at the corner of two streets is signs.
the Pacific Ocean is used for fishing.
You are likely to find an eatery in a city.
You are likely to find jeans in a clothing store.
a Frisbee is for playing catch.
Islam is a world religion founded by the Prophet Muhammad.
baking a cake is for dessert.
thinking is for adapting.
You would go for a drive because you want to relax.
You can use a pool to add interest to an event.
A cow can produce methane gas.
a handgun is used for target practice.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in shops.
You are likely to find silver in jewelry.
You are likely to find a washcloth in the linen closet.
learning takes time.
One of the things you do when you play cards is pass a card.
playing sport is for Keeping fit.
The first thing you do when you watch a television show is turn the television on.
a blow dryer is used for drying.
curiosity would make you want to look through a telescope.
You can use a TV to watch the news.
going scuba diving can result in death.
Somewhere water can be is in a pipe.
a person wants a spouse to be faithful.
The cat is looking at the roses.
a table is for working at.
staying in bed is for relaxing.
the ocean is for diving.
Something you might do while playing chess is move a bishop.
Sometimes celebrating causes headaches.
a shop is for selling items.
Something you find at a friend's house is chairs.
an angle grinder does not grind angles.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to work is boredom.
If you want to swim then you should dive in water.
a carpet is for insulation.
Sometimes attending a rock concert causes drunkenness. 
getting up early is for the birds.
Breakfast is a morning meal.
a baseball player throws a ball.
The effect of enjoying the company of your friends is fun.
Something that might happen as a consequence of making friends is having friends.
a friend can borrow a book.
a mother is used for making babies.
a library has many books.
Something you find at school is a principal.
Marble is a type of rock.
Something you find at a show is people.
Something you find on television is television programs.
fishing is for Sport.
NEW YORK HAS MANY TALL BUILDINGS.
LD50 is a notorious toxicity test.
You are likely to find a curator in a museum.
Something you find at a hotel is a restaurant.
Something you find in a garage is a riding lawnmower.
The effect of computing a sum is having an answer.
Somewhere a gardener can be is in the garden.
the moon is a sphere.
Something you find at the doctor is a thermometer.
The effect of catching mumps is sickness.
Hunger would make you want to cook a curry.
Something you might do while fighting the enemy is kill them.
boredom would make you want to play a game with your friends.
You are likely to find an ant in an anthill.
Boats travel across water.
A king is royalty.
You are likely to find a kosher deli in New York City.
You would conduct a trial because some has been accused of a crime.
metal things are cold.
people drink from glasses.
Something you find in the water is wet.
Parrots can talk.
You would walk because you want to get somewhere.
The leader can chair the meetings.
Anyone can borrow books from the library.
Somewhere water can be is in a coffee cup.
People like to dance to music.
You are likely to find a grape in a fruit bowl. 
The first thing you do when you run is stretch.
One of the things you do when you play cards is lose a game.
Ornamental kale is an annual plant.
Something you find at a party is gifts.
Something you find at a bookstore is shelves.
a person can mail a parcel to another person.
a clamp is used to hold something in place.
a cricketer can field a ball.
A taxi may be used to travel from an airport.
South Africa is a country.
If you want to score a homer then you should hit the ball.
The effect of exercising is relaxation.
a hat is for protecting your face from the sun.
One of the things you do when you play cards is get the old maid.
prisoners can live on bread and water.
Something you find on your finger is a knuckle.
Something you find at a bookstore is a cash register.
You are likely to find a letter opener in a desk drawer.
a library contains books.
obesity would make you want to exercise.
Something that might happen while using a calculator is addition.
a dog needs food.
Tadpoles are baby frogs.
a gerbil requires a companion.
Leather is a durable material.
If you want to be bad then you should steal.
Something that might happen when you take a phone call is you talk with someone on the phone.
Some people steal.
Something you might do while waking up in the morning is drink water.
You are likely to find forks in a cutlery drawer.
You are likely to find an apple tree in an apple farm.
shops sell things.
a pub is for playing darts.
A queen is a female.
Something you find in the countryside is open fields.
going fishing requires a fishing rod.
You are likely to find a union in a workplace.
You would judge someone because you do not know them.
A person does not want to get stressed out.
You are likely to find a human in a grave.
A black hole is an object so massive that even light can't escape it's gravity.
The effect of going into a coma is unconsciousness passing a class requires working.
ducks have feathers.
The effect of going fishing is relaxation.
If you want to stand in line then you should be patient.
A person doesn't want mass produced plastic junk lawn ornaments from China on the lawn.
Bait is used to catch fish.
One of the things you do when you walk is go someplace.
One of the things you do when you analyze something is look at it.
Something you find at the beach is sunscreen.
Something you find in the freezer is food.
One of the things you do when you make a phone call is dial the phone.
If you want to please your parents then you should obey your parents.
You are likely to find a tablecloth in a restaurant.
Prairie dogs live in a hole in the ground.
The first thing you do when you answer questions is open your mouth.
You would socialize because you want to make friends.
a person doesn't want to be unemployed.
If you want to prove your physical endurance then you should enter a race.
Meditation involves the suppression of thoughts.
space is a dangerous place.
AMD makes the K6-II+.
If you want to score a homer then you should bat.
You are likely to find a king in his castle.
You are likely to find an avenue in a city.
You are likely to find a document folder in a computer desktop.
A Volvo is a type of car.
You are likely to find a hill in a landscape.
buying a house is for investing.
people are sometimes jealous.
You are likely to find a food store in a shopping center.
If you want to type then you should use a keyboard.
Hunger is painful.
buying a shirt is for wearing.
You are likely to find a small dog in a small house.
a person can step up.
You would reach an impasse because you want to avoid compromise.
Four quarts make a gallon.
You are likely to find a wine cellar in the basement.
You are likely to find a nightclub in a city.
The last thing you do when you clean is take out the trash.
You would wait tables because you want tips.
You are likely to find a check in counter in a motel.
You would use a television because you are bored.
a mutt is a mixed breed dog.
Something you find at a museum is a mummy.
an amethyst is a precious stone.
If you want to play basketball then you should have a basketball.
You are likely to find wool in a fabric store.
a reporter can report news.
Something that might happen as a consequence of visiting other countries is jet lag.
If you want to read to your children then you should buy some books.
cooling off is for becoming more comfortable.
You are likely to find garbage in a dumpster.
The last thing you do when you go on a vacation is go home.
plants are green because of chlorophyll.
a batter can crowd the plate.
people like to travel.
A cello is a musical instrument.
A plant can be suffering dehydration.
A cat can fight a dog.
a check book holder is for balancing check books.
memorizing is for remembering.
Boats can travel very fast.
You are likely to find the Atlantic Ocean in the earth.
a backdrop is used for setting the scene.
Something that might happen while agreeing with someone is shaking their hand.
If you want to please your parents then you should clean your room.
Something that might happen as a consequence of living is respiration.
You are likely to find a grape in a salad.
You are likely to find a sheet in a linen store.
Sound does not travel through the vacuum of outer space.
wet grass is slippery.
Something you find at the market is produce.
An otter is a mammal.
pants are a type of clothing.
carpeting is for warmth.
The effect of buying a house is going into debt.
Something that might happen when you ski is breaking a leg.
You are likely to find a shark in salt water.
A rocking chair is relaxing.
a dog can fight a cat.
Sunglasses reduce glare.
If you want to fight war then you should join the military.
Something that might happen as a consequence of improving yourself is happiness.
a restaurant table is for dining.
Something that might happen while buying products is having the highest bid.
You are likely to find a potato in a cupboard.
You are likely to find a cow in a stable.
Something that might happen while advancing into battle is fear.
playing basketball is for competition.
a shirt is an item of clothing.
Something you find in class is learning.
You can use a cake to celebrate.
Something that might happen as a consequence of driving is an accident.
Something you find in a closet is coat hangers.
Something you find at the front door is religious fanatics.
You would comfort a friend because he is feeling bad.
Something you find at a friend's house is carpet.
Horses are four legged animals.
You can use a writer to write a book.
You would enjoy the day because you want to be happy.
A girl is an immature human female.
If you want to get something then you should save the money to buy it.
A vein is a blood vessel which carries blood to the heart.
justice is blind.
a lot of people like to ride roller coasters.
You are likely to find a marker in a drawer.
a friend can lend a tool.
Something you find in orbit is space debris.
Dodos are extinct.
A person wants intellectual stimulation.
People breathe in oxygen.
Somewhere a professor can be is at a college.
a cover is for protecting things.
The pawn is the soul of chess.
Playing darts is fun.
Something you find at the library is a reference desk.
snow is for shoveling. 
Something that might happen when you have a nervous breakdown is you use pills.
trees have green leaves.
people can climb trees.
Your sisters and your brothers are your siblings.
a person doesn't want to be persecuted.
a person doesn't want a slow Internet connection.
Lawyers practice the law.
reading a newspaper requires time.
You can use a beverage service to get a drink.
a mother can sing to her child.
Needles and pins are sharp.
events happen.
You are likely to find an address label in an office.
Visa is a credit card company.
a mortar is used for grinding things.
Something that might happen as a consequence of fixing a computer is it works.
Something you might do while stopping your car is obey the law.
a moving walkway is for Moving people.
An activity your mother can do is love you.
An operator can direct a call.
You are likely to find a gazelle in the belly of a lion.
Everyone should be good.
a computer is one type of machine.
becoming inebriated requires inebriates. 
using a computer requires software.
jewelry is pretty.
Something you find at a fast-food restaurant is cheeseburger.
writing is for creative expression.
The effect of complaining about the state of the world is useless.
a cake is used for dessert.
wanting a pie would make you want to follow a recipe.
Something you find at the dentist is a dental assistant.
You would hear singing because you want to hear a song.
One of the things you do when you ride a horse is put a saddle on the horse.
Something that might happen when you cook dinner is you cut carrots.
If you want to tell a story then you should have an audience.
visiting an art gallery requires sight.
a rotary file is for storing information.
Something you might do while taking final exams is sharpen your pencils.
Something you find at a fork in the road is a stop sign.
Something you might do while bathing is relax.
a person wants to be warm.
You can use a doctor office to wait for the doctor.
Moses can part a sea.
Somewhere a mailman can be is at a post office.
a temple is a place of worship.
An activity a homeowner can do is paint the house.
You are likely to find a potato in a farmer's field.
Something that might happen when you lose weight is you buy clothes.
The Internet is a great way to communicate.
Sometimes enjoying the company of your friends causes good times.
Some people suffer from vertigo.
reading a letter is for being informed.
Something that might happen while conducting a trial is examining evidence.
You can use a refrigerator to cool cans of cola.
Something you find in jail is political prisoners.
The last thing you do when you write a program is compile it.
You can use money to pay for something.
Sometimes washing your hands causes water to splash.
Something you might do while thanking someone is sending a card.
Anniversary is a special moment.
If you have a heart attack then you should go to the doctor.
You are likely to find a world in a solar system.
You would study because you want to pass the test.
Something you might do while getting some money from someone is provide a service.
fruits are delicious.
a peridot is a precious stone.
Force equals mass times acceleration.
a headline would make you want to read the news.
If you want to have a party then you should invite some people to come over.
The effect of making a phone call is another person talks to you.
You are likely to find an acoustic guitar in the closet.
Sometimes getting to the front of the line causes impatience.
Connecticut is a state.
If you want to drill a hole then you should use a drill.
Sometimes taking a bath causes calmness.
Sometimes fighting the enemy causes hatred.
sports are good exercise.
a man can own a car.
You would be in charge of a project because you want a free vacation.
Democracy is a form of government.
River water can be very cold.
You are likely to find a sword in a scabbard.
Something that might happen while going to a film is you drink a coke.
You are likely to find a grape in a winery.
Something that might happen when you bake a cake is you break some eggs.
You are likely to find a heifer in heat.
Something you might do while going into a trance is stare.
a writing instrument is for drawing pictures.
running is good exercise.
Something you find at a bowling alley is bowling shoes.
If you want to meet interesting people then you should go to interesting places.
a president is for Leading a country.
a dressing room is for privacy.
Something that might happen while learning about the world is you buy a map.
communities dispose of garbage.
Sometimes going to market causes you to buy cottage cheese.
You are likely to find a check in the bank.
lack of money would make you want to pay by credit card.
Baseball is an American pastime.
You are likely to find a harmonica in a pocket.
You are likely to find an intersection in any city.
You are likely to find a calculator in a pocket.
watching TV requires an electric outlet.
If you want to read the newspaper then you should take the rubber band off.
The effect of waiting in line is taking your turn.
You can use a corner grocery to buy more milk.
making a patchwork quilt requires sewing with a needle.
Something you find at dinner is the entrée. 
Something you might do while repairing an umbrella is get wet.
drinking alcohol is for getting drunk.
The effect of playing sports is competitive fun.
You are likely to find a parking zone in the parking lot.
Something that might happen while playing a game with your friends is you get mad.
Amsterdam is in Holland.
The effect of jumping rope is having fun.
The effect of having an epileptic fit is danger.
Texas is part of The United States of America.
A tripod helps avoid accidental falling of the camera.
You are likely to find a barber comb in the barber shop.
Bicycling is an aerobic sport.
People write on paper.
playing football requires a football field.
ink is usually blue.
taking an exam requires a number 2 pencil.
If you want to use a VCR then you should read the instruction manual.
You would bring home some fish because you want to impress the kids.
Something you find at the top of a mountain is a great view.
a stylus is a pointy little stick used to write on clay tablets.
Love can lead to a wedding.
Something that might happen when you wait on line is you get crazy.
going to bed is for having a dream.
Something that might happen as a consequence of passing a course is getting a good grade.
a lip is used for talking.
Something you might do while attending a classical concert is a leash.
Sometimes reading causes headaches from eye strain.
Something you find at dinner is a spoon.
Clinton is a liar.
a chess board is used for playing games.
You are likely to find a crab in shallow ocean water.
Something that might happen while standing up is you get dizzy.
a staircase is used for going upstairs.
If you want to stay in bed then you should hit the snooze button on the alarm clock.
punching someone requires fists.
You are likely to find woolen fabric in a fabric store.
A child plays with toys.
a chess queen is for playing chess.
creating art is for fun.
You would play baseball because it is fun.
Drugs are substances used in the treatment of illness.
starting a fire is for cooking food.
Sometimes cutting your hair causes people to laugh at you.
Something you need to do before you eat a cookie is open the cookie jar.
a yo-yo is used for entertainment.
Something that might happen as a consequence of flying a kite is relaxation.
shotguns are a type of gun.
running after the ball requires running.
Watches have hands.
You can use an action figure to have fun.
Pandas eat bamboo.
The last thing you do when you travel is return home.
Something you find at a synagogue is a person at prayer.
You are likely to find a marmot in a hole.
Something you find at a grocery store is cereal.
Something you find at a park is baseball.
Something that might happen while playing sports is winning.
You would play the violin because you want to be a fine musician.
having a physical examination is for maintaining health.
The effect of self awareness is helpful in healing from disease.
IP stands for Internet Protocol.
a person wants to eat good food.
The effect of howling with laughter is a release of nervous energy.
a desk tray is for holding paper clips.
Something that might happen as a consequence of reaching a tentative agreement is peace.
Something you might do while playing tennis is serve.
a school is for Education of pupils.
The effect of listening to the radio is sleep.
Something you might do while running is breathe.
You would watch a movie because you are with your date.
You are likely to find a game in an arcade.
watching television is for learning.
The first thing you do when you dance the samba is find a partner.
a person doesn't want to eat rotten food.
a person doesn't want to be pestered.
a lake is for boating on.
The effect of using a VCR is watching a movie.
a barber shop is used for cutting your hair.
Something that might happen as a consequence of making people laugh is you feel good.
Something you might do while waiting in line is whistle.
You are likely to find a stairway in a building.
astronauts can go into space.
Sometimes riding a horse causes your bottom to be sore.
painting is for artists.
You are likely to find a population in any city.
Lettuce is a leafy vegetable.
You are likely to find a chest in a pirate ship.
Sometimes taking an examination causes excess anxiety.
Something you need to do before you perform is warm up.
Jerusalem is part of Israel.
You are likely to find a fox on or in Utah.
 Something that might happen as a consequence of giving a gift is a thank you.
You are likely to find a contralto in a concert.
a person doesn't want to be manipulated.
Something you find at sea is an albatross.
Something you might do while crossing the street is avoid cars.
Words have meaning.
The last thing you do when you commit to memory is forget.
If you want to go off strike then you should be reasonable.
attending a meeting requires a place.
If you want to score a homer then you should play baseball well.
Something you find at a zoo is polar bears.
Something you find at a motel is a phone book.
The effect of debating politics is confusion and misinformation.
Something that might happen while running errands is buying groceries.
If you want to check vital signs then you should take a pulse.
Sometimes communicating causes understanding.
You would wait on tables because you want to serve coffee.
seeing a story requires opening the book.
You can use headphones to listen to music.
Some people tell lies.
playing a game is for competition.
One of the things you do when you buy a hamburger is pay for it.
traffic congestion is a problem.
love is an emotion between people.
Something you might do while getting some physical activity is laugh.
One of the things you do when you fight is bleed.
crossing the street requires looking both ways first.
You are likely to find a carafe in a coffee shop.
Something that might happen when you propose to a woman is she laughs.
A bride and a groom get married.
You would help someone because you have compassion for them.
Movie watching is passive entertainment.
Something that might happen while eating breakfast in bed is you put eggs on your fork.
competing against someone requires desire to win.
Something you find in space is radiation.
A semiautomatic is a type of gun.
Something that might happen while dreaming is you talk in your sleep.
people is generally animals.
a person doesn't want his dog to die.
a train is used for transportation.
Something you find atop a mountain is a flag.
a bookcase contains books.
The effect of cooking dinner is cooked food.
Melatonin is a kind of naturally occurring hormone.
an instrument is used for playing music.
a cubicle is used for office work.
Some houses have chimneys.
Somewhere a dog can be is at the vet.
Sometimes remembering something causes inspiration.
If you want to breathe some fresh air then you should go to the countryside.
Sometimes enjoying a film causes happiness.
You are likely to find a candle in a birthday cake.
If you want to propose to a woman then you should get advice from her family.
Sometimes committing to memory causes you to forget something else.
Smog in cities is an increasing health hazard.
the hard drive can store lots of information.
Something that might happen while competing against someone is you tire.
People read magazines.
a vice is a tool.
The effect of playing a game of chess is thinking hard.
making a better world requires acceptance.
Something you find in a forest is a camp site.
One of the things you do when you work is earn money.
Something you need to do before you wait tables is put your uniform on.
Something you might do while fighting the enemy is run.
You can use a fluoride mouthwash to freshen your breath.
You are likely to find a restaurant dining area in a restaurant.
Something you need to do before you light a match is get a match.
If you want to set a cup on a table then you should get a cup.
Something you find in the purse is a small mirror.
You would commit suicide because you want to die.
Something you might do while running in a marathon is breathe hard.
If you want to do a crossword puzzle then you should buy a crossword puzzle book.
Something you find in the cellar is boxes.
Something that might happen when you eat a cookie is it crumbles.
Something you find in the oven is a roast.
Something that might happen as a consequence of starting a family is many large bills.
You are likely to find a Japanese restaurant in a city.
Something you find under the table is a foot.
If you want to water a plant then you should put water in a container.
If you want to play games then you should have someone to play games with.
Hemoglobin is a chemical.
a bank card represents money.
Everyone dies.
Something that might happen while cleaning your room is you find your lost sock.
You are likely to find a row house in a city.
Suppliers can ship products.
Something you find at a carnival is a game of chance.
Sometimes going to bed causes laziness.
a mother is for taking care of children.
Coins are money.
Something you might do while having an asthma attack is cough.
the eye is a delicate machine.
Hot chocolate is a comforting drink.
Animals die.
The effect of doing the housework is the house is clean.
war would make you want to fight the enemy.
The first thing you do when you complain about the state of the world is open your mouth.
a first class airline seat is for rich people.
a new credit card would make you want to buy something.
If you want to go to a movie then you should check the showing times.
lack of money would make you want to get a job.
Something you find at a store is detergent.
flutes would make you want to attend a classical concert.
You would snore because you want air.
The universe is infinite.
You are likely to find a lizard in a dry, rocky area.
Sometimes sleeping causes nightmares.
Lizards have a tail.
You can use a basketball to throw.
Something you might do while taking an examination is write an essay.
kitchens have stoves.
Doctors often wear white lab coats.
A magnifying glass is commonly made of glass.
Some people like to read books.
Something that might happen while going to a Laundromat is you use soap.
You would laugh because you are happy.
there are 5,280 feet in a mile.
Something you find on a shelf is a stored item.
Something that might happen as a consequence of hearing music is spontaneous dancing.
a cocoon can become a butterfly.
Man is made of Matter.
You are likely to find streams in the woods.
a jackpot would make you want to cash in.
Something you might do while doing the housework is vacuum the floor.
You are likely to find a bobby pin in a woman's hair.
Something you find at a store is canned peas.
Something that might happen while going to a Laundromat is getting your clothes clean.
bacon is part of a pig.
Vacuums are for cleaning carpets.
Sometimes watching a film causes stupidity.
A horse is a type of mammal.
A piggy bank is for storing money.
Vaccines are used to prevent disease.
You can use a doctor to heal.
Something you find at a sporting event is competitors.
some people use drugs.
Something you find atop a mountain is trees.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing cards is losing money.
You are likely to find a band aid in a medicine cabinet.
Sometimes having an asthma attack causes panic.
reading a newspaper requires eyes.
Tinamou is a bird.
Something that might happen while playing a sport is you break your leg.
A lawn needs water.
Training within health departments is a preparation for a biological attack.
a person wants medium rare steaks.
Something you might do while using a calculator is multiply.
Something you find at a street corner is a road sign.
A man wants to be appreciated.
India is a very populous country.
Something you find at the bottom of the sea is a sponge.
Something that might happen when you go to a baseball game is cheering for the home team.
a person wants to have a choice.
This glass of water is half-full.
Earth is the home of all humans.
reggae is a kind of music.
ordinary glass is a brittle material which fractures easily.
fish can be eaten raw.
building a tower out of toy blocks requires patience.
Doctors are specialists that help people.
MPEG is a standard for compressing video and audio files.
Something you find at a library is library cards.
The effect of stabbing to death is gruesome.
Magnesium is an alkaline earth metal.
Sometimes telling many people about something causes emotional distress.
a ballpoint pen is for pointing at something.
a pond is a small open body of water.
music can be written on paper.
Something that might happen while listening to the radio is the battery dies.
If you want to go for a walk then you should bring your dog with you.
Logo is an interpreted programming language.
Something that might happen while getting drunk is you throw up.
You are likely to find a place to eat in a town.
a leg has one foot.
Something you might do while waiting on line is get tired.
Some poems are about love.
Something that might happen as a consequence of writing a poem is you have fun.
If you want to dance the samba then you should play samba music.
One of the things you do when you see art is appreciate the work.
Something you might do while posting a message is type a message.
Something that might happen while losing weight is you need new clothes.
Superman can do amazing feats.
a chrysoprase is a precious stone.
love is a powerful emotion.
Something you might do while going jogging is tie your shoes.
A railing is a bar at waist height to assist people up and down stairs.
A funny movie would make you want to howl with laughter.
Something that might happen as a consequence of washing your car is it gets shiny. 
ink is for coloring.
a jade is a precious stone.
dancing is for flirting.
Something you find at the gym is a swimming pool.
A car can hit another car.
a person doesn't want to be treated badly.
going for a run is for getting into shape.
Something you find at a war is George Bush.
You would go on vacation because you need a break.
A Gel is a colored light covering used to provide light effects in a theater.
Something you find behind the refrigerator is a wall.
going off strike requires reaching an agreement.
Something that might happen while taking the stand is swearing an oath.
Water vapor is a gas.
Something you find in orbit is debris.
a musician is a person who plays music.
You can use an ottoman to rest your feet.
Something you might do while running after the ball is trip.
Some people are deceptive.
playing a guitar requires strings.
The Internet is the interconnection of millions of computers throughout the world.
A revolver is a weapon.
Something you find at an apartment is a refrigerator.
Something that might happen as a consequence of telling a story is you embellish.
You are likely to find a vegetable garden in a backyard.
If you want to chat with friends then you should call a friend.
Sometimes thanking someone causes sincere appreciation.
A soft drink is carbonated.
a library is for reading.
Something you find under a desk is cables.
Something you might do while finding a lost item is look.
Something you find at a toy store is a salesperson.
You are likely to find a horse in the USA.
You are likely to find an eraser in a pencil box.
One of the things you do when you watch a film is buy popcorn.
a castle is a large, richly decorated building.
a person wants to have fun in life.
Sometimes gaining more land causes disputes.
A spy can bug an apartment.
Something you find on the subway is buskers.
being out of shape would make you want to get exercise.
Something that might happen when you strike a match is fire.
a rolling stone gathers no moss.
You are likely to find a harp on or in a music store.
a person wants to earn lots of money.
cogitating requires reason.
Something that might happen when you go to the hairdresser is getting your hair cut.
A skateboard is a kind of toy.
cleaning your clothes is for getting rid of sweat.
Something that might happen when you read a magazine is you get bored.
a hairdryer is for melting ice.
A globe is a very simplified way to depict our planet.
A rod is part of the eye.
the Internet would make you want to learn a language.
animals are living creatures.
a lighter is a kind of tool.
Fruit contains a lot of vitamins.
cooking dinner requires a heated pan.
Something you find in a cabinet is canned food.
perception is part of Conscious things.
Something you find at a museum is archaeological artifacts.
going to market requires a car to drive.
To understand the event "Jill wrote a book about cigars.", it is important to know that Cigars are made of tobacco.
heart is a kind of organ.
a person wants to be recognized.
chatting with friends requires a phone.
You are likely to find ink in a squid.
Something that might happen as a consequence of drinking alcohol is becoming drunk.
You would go to the zoo because you want to see giraffes.
a person doesn't want to be late for work.
A pencil is a writing device.
people eat bagels with cream cheese.
One common emotion is jealousy.
a person wants to be wanted.
You are likely to find meat in a supermarket.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to the mall is you buy something.
Something you might do while falling is yell.
If you want to reach an impasse then you should refuse to compromise.
malls are collections of stores.
You would paint a house because you want it to look good.
a smoker can strike a match.
You would practice because you want improvement.
Something that might happen while satisfying appetites with minimum effort is you gain weight.
If you want to go to a party then you should dress up.
The effect of self awareness is helpful in becoming happy.
lizards eat insects.
Something that might happen while getting a good grade is pride.
You are likely to find your feet in shoes.
a lens is made of glass.
You are likely to find a cymbal in an orchestra.
You are likely to find a token turnstile in a subway station.
Cats can't drive cars.
Something you find in a pantry is dry goods.
You can use a hardware store to buy screws.
If you want to wage war then you should have weapons.
skittles are a type of candy.
Something you find on television is a television show.
The effect of typing is communication.
You are likely to find a shadow on the ground.
Tennessee is part of the United States of America.
One of the things you do when you play games is keep score.
punishing someone is for retribution.
You are likely to find a driveway in a yard.
skin is on the body.
If you want to clean clothing then you should use detergent and a washing machine.
committing perjury is for liars.
You are likely to find a pleasure garden in Japan.
tanks are heavy.
A computer requires electricity.
breathing some fresh air is for relaxing.
a fare card is for riding a bus.
The effect of playing tennis is sweat.
If you want to clean your room then you should organize it.
lighting a match is for making fire.
If you want to play tennis then you should use a tennis racket.
DNA holds information about proteins.
A microwave oven can heat foods.
getting up early is for watching the sunrise.
You would return to work because you need money.
You are likely to find a ball bearing in a wheel.
If you want to post a message then you should turn on the computer.
You can use a tuba to play music.
You are likely to find a waiting room in a doctor's office.
If you want to drive to work then you should have gas in a car.
taking a shower is for keeping clean.
playing baseball requires a baseball bat.
Something that might happen while exercising is you get sweaty.
Something that might happen as a consequence of watching a television show is laughter.
Something you find in a laboratory is a rat.
You can use a double edged razor to cut.
watering a plant is for its nourishment. 
people watch television for entertainment.
You can use a sofa bed to sit on.
If you want to thank someone then you should be sincere.
sitting in a chair allows you to take weight off your feet.
Something that might happen when you strike a match is lighting a fire.
You are likely to find land on earth.
Sometimes burying the cat causes anger.
Canoes float.
One of the things you do when you dream is have REM sleep.
an artery is used for carrying blood.
People use binoculars for bird watching.
Something you find at a library is quiet.
resting is for taking a nap.
women are mothers.
a passenger can board a boat.
children enjoy playing with toys.
friends can borrow money.
Sometimes thanking someone causes them to smile.
passing would make you want to take an exam.
If you want to procreate then you should find a mate.
You are likely to find a cat in your favorite chair.
Balloons are usually colorful.
a person wants laughter.
Something you need to do before you move a car is put it in gear.
Something you might do while eating a hamburger is chew.
The best place to vomit is in a toilet.
Something that might happen as a consequence of reproducing is birth.
Plungers unplug toilets.
You are likely to find a material in a fabric store.
You are likely to find a monkey in movies.
a king is for playing chess.
a person doesn't want imprisonment.
There are fifty two weeks in a year.
a person can visit a place.
ink is for printing.
a person doesn't want to be shot in the head.
Something you find in a pantry is flour.
a place to stay is used for sleeping.
a person wants to prosper.
walking the dog requires a dog.
Canada is north of the United States of America.
Jesus is a Son of God.
Crayons are colorful sticks of wax.
You are likely to find an apartment building in the city.
some mountains have snow on them.
You are likely to find cardboard in a box.
Wasps can sting.
You would walk because you have no car.
If you want to wash your car then you should have water.
a marble is used for games.
the lion is the king of the jungle.
You are likely to find a snake in France.
having a bath requires water and soap.
You are likely to find a towel bar in a bathroom.
The alphabet is a series of letters used to write a language.
Something that might happen while catching mumps is you feel ill.
Hunger would make you want to eat a hamburger.
Sometimes having fun causes stress relief.
Pythons are snakes.
Some communities recycle.
mice are small.
Families like to be together.
tornadoes are dangerous storms.
Something you need to do before you reach an advantage is work hard.
a letter scale is used for weighing mail.
Something you find in the desk is rubber bands.
a fork is for lifting food.
Saskinbakkal is part of Istanbul. 
bridges are big.
Fencing is an Olympic sport.
homeowners can borrow money from the bank.
Sometimes setting a cup on the table causes a ring on the table.
tickling is for teasing.
thinking is for puzzling it out.
Mercury is a liquid metal.
The Quran is the prime source of every Muslim's faith.
A box is used for holding things.
You are likely to find a snare drum in a marching band.
You would go into a trance because you are being hypnotized.
a baseball pitcher throws a ball.
Something that might happen when you take a break is getting a drink.
a glue is used for holding two things together.
opera is boring.
Something you find behind the refrigerator is cobwebs.
You are likely to find a cannonball in a cannon.
You are likely to find jeans in a Laundromat.
Something you find at the market is fresh vegetables.
Something you find on the lawn is dog poop.
cats are mean.
discovering the truth is for thinkers.
Wine has alcohol in it.
Something you find on the porch is a plant.
fruits come in many colors. 
spending money is for buying something for yourself.
You are likely to find a ferret in your pants.
You are likely to find a calendar in a office supply store.
You are likely to find neck wear in a closet.
a bag is used for carrying groceries.
Mailboxes contain mail.
You are likely to find a toy car in a toy store.
some horses are good jumpers.
You are likely to find an action figure in the toy department.
Something that might happen as a consequence of communicating is misunderstandings.
an avenue is a kind of street.
a broadcast studio is used for sending signals.
fruit is good to eat.
The effect of emptying your bladder is feeling comfortable.
sheep are farm animals.
A teakettle is used to boil water to make tea.
Soda is a carbonated beverage.
playing games is for keeping fit.
You are likely to find a birth control pill in the bedroom.
You are likely to find a metal in ore.
fruit and vegetable juices are good for you.
a drum is for making music.
A student can complete a test.
You are likely to find a vehicle in the street.
a person doesn't want to become homeless.
Horseshoes are used to protect horses' hooves.
You are likely to find a birth control pill in the drug store.
You can use a shopping basket to shop with.
Something you find at the theater is people.
disks hold data.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in Cuba.
Something you might do while committing murder is regret it.
poker is a card game. 
a person doesn't want to be blind.
Something you find in a street is a cop.
If you want to fly in an airplane then you should go to an airport.
You would make a patchwork quilt because you want to learn a craft.
mothers hold babies.
Something you find on the porch is the flower pot.
You are likely to find an anemone in a flower garden.
Something you find in a container is nails.
Something you might do while tying your shoelace is make a knot.
You are likely to find a traffic artery in a major city.
a gopher is a rodent.
You are likely to find a mouse in your own home.
Children are small.
One of the things you do when you clean is dust the furniture.
kids are messy.
Something you find under your bed is a pair of slippers.
a hairdressing salon is for more gossip.
Somewhere a garden can be is in the backyard.
The top of a house is a roof. 
The top of a room is a ceiling.
a planet can orbit a star.
grass can stain cloth.
You are likely to find pasta in an Italian restaurant.
Something you find at an airport is a long line.
Something you might do while waiting in line is go to the bathroom.
Something you find at a fraternity house is friends.
You can use an industry to produce goods.
Something you find on a desk is varnish.
You are likely to find a Chinese restaurant in cities.
Sometimes lighting a match causes an exothermic reaction.
wrenches are heavy.
If you want to diminish your own hunger then you should drink water.
boats are used for transportation.
hearing music is for dancing.
A box can contain a gift.
A knife is a weapon.
Something you find at a movie is friends.
Something you find on a boat is a boater.
If you want to communicate then you should send email.
You are likely to find a snare drum in a band.
A needle has a sharp point.
The first thing you do when you wash clothes is put them in a washing machine.
having a family is nice.
Something you need to do before you watch a television show is turn on the television set.
yo-yos move.
skating is for social interactions.
Something that might happen while fighting war is death.
a person doesn't want bad grades.
Alabama is a state.
You are likely to find a clipboard in a office supply store.
Something you find at a sporting event is beer.
Something you find on a freeway is asphalt.
a terrace is used for standing on.
denim is used for clothes.
Something that might happen while giving a clue is you have fun.
a person doesn't want bad luck.
a party is an event.
Jesus Christ is a popular person.
You would surf the web because you were bored.
Sometimes fencing causes injuries.
Something you need to do before you use a computer is switch it on.
photography is an art.
If you want to sleigh ride then you should buy a sleigh.
You are likely to find a theater hall in a University.
dogs eat dog food.
Something that might happen when you clean clothing is get the clothing wet.
breathing some fresh air is for clearing your lungs.
outer space is infinite.
Something you might do while programming is listing the program steps.
You are likely to find a person in a building.
Something you find at a demonstration is a placard.
going for a walk is for stretching your legs.
Somewhere fire can be is in a fireplace.
Something you might do while watching a movie is fall asleep.
Something you find at the top of a mountain is cold air.
Sometimes tying your shoelace causes knots.
Something that might happen while seeing your favorite show is eating popcorn.
a person doesn't want to be stabbed.
Getting in a car accident is bad.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going for a haircut is having your hair cut.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying drugs is you get arrested.
An up quark is part of a lambda particle.
Something you might do while earning a living is pay taxes.
Afghanistan is part of Asia.
a torch can light the way.
An adenine is part of a DNA.
Chickens are used for food.
A chromosome is part of an animal cell.
A nickname for Tennessee is Volunteer State.
People often cook food.
laughing at a joke is for having fun.
Teaching happens in schools.
Something you need to do before you take finals is study a lot.
Something that might happen when you listen to the radio is you learn something.
You are likely to find a postal counter in an office.
You are likely to find a microphone boom in a studio.
Something that might happen while praying is an answer from God.
applying for a job requires a resume.
beer is a kind of fermented beverage.
You would go on the stage because you want to act.
a person doesn't want to drown.
Something you find at a hospital is an emergency ward.
You would pray because you want to communicate with God.
You are likely to find a human in a subway.
You are likely to find a ranch house in Texas.
buses are longer than cars.
Something that might happen when you learn about science is enlightenment.
sailing is a kind of sport.
You can use a work of art to inspire.
Something you need to do before you have fun is be in a good mood.
Something that might happen when you stand up is you get woozy.
Something you might do while selling your new book is you get a promotion.
Love would make you want to hear singing.
a person wants dinner.
If you want to move a car then you should push it.
Diagrams help to explain things.
a hallway is for moving between rooms.
Something that might happen while relaxing is listening to music.
a wife is a person's loved one.
Astronauts are people that go to outer space.
sofas are soft.
Fruit tastes good.
obstructing justice requires criminal intent.
People can age quickly.
a person wants flowers.
a tin is used for holding food.
One of the things you do when you play the piano is move your fingers.
Something you need to do before you eat vegetables is wash them.
A disk is round.
there can be several versions of one song.
a story is for reading.
You would hug someone because you love them.
a freezer is for freezing things.
Something you need to do before you receive a degree is pass exams.
You would kiss someone because you want to express love.
Something you find under the table is dried up food.
a person wants attention.
a tenor is used for singing.
a chair is used for resting.
Something you might do while going to a party is drink.
A garage is usually used for storing vehicles.
slipper is a kind of shoe.
a fortune is a lot of money.
a person doesn't want a paper cut. 
getting in shape is for being more attractive.
You would take a walk because you want some fresh air.
You are likely to find a kosher restaurant in a Jewish neighborhood.
Something you might do while calculating things quickly is use a pencil and paper.
You are likely to find an instrument in the orchestra.
using a VCR is for recording a movie.
You are likely to find a bee on or in a tree.
Something you might do while committing perjury is lying while under oath.
You are likely to find a grill in the backyard.
a leaf is for photosynthesis.
Most apartments have kitchens.
obstructing justice is for criminals.
A shirt is an article of clothing.
If you want to forgive someone then you should be kind.
You are likely to find a basketball in a basketball court.
the world is a large place.
The first thing you do when you talk with someone far away is telephone them.
a person wants to achieve enlightenment.
You are likely to find a kitten in a cage.
December is a month.
You can use a tap to get beer from a keg.
Orange juice is a drink.
The last thing you do when you score a home run is touch home plate.
A libertarian is an individualist.
a person wants ice cream.
The Statue of Liberty is very large.
The media informs people of world events.
You are likely to find a mouse in a grain bin.
an icebox is used for keeping food cold.
paint is for painting.
There are twelve signs of the zodiac.
a national interstate highway is for transportation.
some people grow plants in their homes.
If you want to light a fire then you should have fuel.
Something you find at a bus stop is people waiting.
If you want to play chess then you should get a chess board.
Men and women like to kiss.
If you want to exercise then you should go on a walk.
Bridge is a card game.
You are likely to find a moistener in lotion.
Plants need minerals to live.
You are likely to find shampoo in a bottle.
If you want to take an oath then you should put your hand on a Bible.
If you want to program then you should learn a computer language.
Something you find on the subway is a rail.
If you want to buy presents then you should go shopping.
Marriage is a special moment.
An activity a cyclist can do is ride a bike.
If you want to have a conversation then you should talk to another person.
oil is for cars.
Something that might happen as a consequence of using a television is boredom.
The effect of watching a musician perform is awe.
good news would make you want to send e-mail.
a person wants to live well.
You would improve your image because you want to impress people.
a prince is royalty.
lawyers can prove their cases.
Something you find under a tree is the ground.
A birthday would make you want to buy presents for others.
People watch a lot of television.
attending school is for learning.
You are likely to find a church side passage in a church.
desire to learn would make you want to visit a museum.
satellites are used for communication.
Black comb.
Sharp objects can hurt you.
The first thing you do when you have a nervous breakdown is cry.
penguins are better suited for cold weather than humans.
You are likely to find an animal in a pet store.
checkbooks contain checks.
You would have friends over because you want company.
a glue stick is for sticking paper together.
having a haircut is for looking good.
nail clippers cut fingernails.
You can use a parking lot to park.
running after the ball is for catching it.
Business is business.
Very few adults believe in the legend of Santa Claus.
You are likely to find a check book in a purse.
One of the things you do when you bungee jump from a high bridge is scream.
buying presents for others is for celebrating a birthday.
a minister works in a church.
teaching other people requires patience.
relaxing is for feeling good.
Something you need to do before you write a story is have an idea for a story.
Something you find at a bus depot is waiting passengers.
You would play tennis because you want to have fun.
some people keep journals.
Something that might happen while bathing is getting soap in your eyes.
your birthday is the day that you were born.
Something you might do while making a shopping list is look in the refrigerator.
Water reflects images around it.
You are likely to find a check in a bank.
A towel can dry the dishes.
people live in villages.
A disk drive is part of a computer.
You can use a Mexican restaurant to eat out.
You are likely to find beer in a keg.
a baseball is used for playing a game.
A fireplace is hot.
If you want to sew then you should learn to sew.
laws are rules.
The effect of going to a restaurant is eating a meal.
a person wants encouragement.
The sun warms the earth.
A cougar is a kind of big cat.
The effect of punishing someone is revenge.
books contain knowledge a mirror is for looking at yourself.
You can use a ticket box to store tickets.
Something you find at a gallery opening is sculpture.
You are likely to find a rosebush in a rose garden.
a college is for getting a degree.
a person doesn't want spoiled food.
Something you find at a war is dead bodies.
Yo-yos are a toy for doing tricks.
Somewhere a sandwich can be is in a lunch box. 
movies are a form of entertainment.
wind would make you want to fly a kite.
Something you find at a friend's wedding is flowers.
The ocean is full of water and salt.
a comforter is a blanket.
You would contemplate because you want answers.
drivers can turn cars.
You are likely to find a human in a hotel.
balloons rise.
The effect of taking a bath is getting clean.
a revolution can shake a nation.
a person doesn't want to see a bad movie.
a person wants others to have a sense of accomplishment.
pictures can hang on walls.
dogs are furry.
You are likely to find an envelope in drawer.
You are likely to find an industry in a big city.
You can use an electric razor to remove unwanted hair.
time goes on.
You can use an air conditioning to cool down.
The sun is the largest object in our solar system.
joining the army is for defending your country.
Rosebuds become roses.
Something that might happen while having a party is meeting new people.
An activity a jockey can do is ride a fast horse.
a plastic chair.
You are likely to find people in vehicles.
Density is mass per unit volume.
An activity a janitor can do is clean a toilet.
lanterns give off light.
garbage waste is a bad thing.
You would conquer your opponent because you want victory.
all people have parents.
a Cadillac is a kind of car.
working is for producing.
You are likely to find a counter in a kitchen.
Trees do not have brains.
hunters use guns.
The Golden Gate bridge is a suspension bridge.
If you want to talk with someone far away then you should use the phone.
smoke rises through a chimney.
bananas can be eaten.
You are likely to find a harpsichord in a band.
hunger would make you want to begin work.
Something you find at school is a ruler.
Epileptic fits are involuntary.
You are likely to find a mouse in a burrow.
You would play poker because you want to win money.
An activity children can do is cut and paste.
You are likely to find a carafe in a restaurant.
If you want to go for a run then you should go to a park.
You are likely to find a gazelle in the wild.
The world is not round.
There are 10 years in a decade.
Some missiles are air to surface.
Sand is found on beaches.
hearing testimony is for passing judgment. 
a manager can fire an employee.
The moon rotates around the Earth.
a person doesn't want to lose their legs.
stained glass is colored glass.
Something that might happen while having an asthma attack is shortness of breath.
erasers are used to fix mistakes.
You are likely to find water in rain.
Something you might do while eating in a fast food restaurant is order French fries.
Something that might happen when you eat breakfast in bed is you spill the milk.
a person doesn't want a parking ticket.
Sometimes playing soccer causes injury.
You would stop your car because you want to get out.
If you want to pay cash then you should open your wallet.
You are likely to find a launch platform in a space port.
You are likely to find a weasel in the grass.
sitting on a chair is for putting on your shoes.
Something you might do while talking to someone is make eye contact.
Lumber comes from trees.
an acrylic is for making paint.
sitting on a chair is for putting on your socks.
A Golgi apparatu is part of an animal cell.
a person wants good credit.
The Internet is used to transfer information.
seeing a band is for Seeing the performers.
Wash and wear fabric does not need ironing.
A cobra is a snake.
Something you need to do before you play baseball is join a team.
Something you find on your desk is piles of paper.
A forearm is part of an arm.
You are likely to find a science in a college.
A walnut has a shell.
A girl can date a boy.
an oven can heat food.
Something you find in the oven is muffins.
Something you need to do before you commit perjury is take an oath to tell the truth.
a divider is for separating things.
a safety pin has many uses.
You can use an airplane to fly.
IBM makes some computer chips.
playing games is a activity.
Something you find at a school is a pencil sharpener.
frustration is an emotion.
a market is for selling and buying.
a hair is a strand.
a bed is for reading in.
a farm animal is a animal.
Something that might happen when you get a good grade is mom is proud.
Judges can settle disputes.
Some birds are eagles.
a person wants second chances.
Some people don't sing well.
The United States of America is a Country.
baking a cake is for a special occasion.
a radio station can air a radio program.
You are likely to find a lizard in a house.
linoleum is for flooring.
Something that might happen while seeing artifacts is observing details.
building a tower out of toy blocks is for playing.
You are likely to find a list of appointments in a briefcase.
Something that might happen as a consequence of doing some exercises is good health.
Sometimes working causes blisters. 
stopping your car is for avoiding an accident.
a menu is for ordering food.
Sometimes finding information causes gaining knowledge.
houses often have foyers.
Something that might happen when you remember a phone number is you dial the number.
Somewhere a dog can be is in the dog house.
Dallas is a city in Texas.
The first thing you do when you mail a letter is seal the envelope.
You would request information because you want information.
computers use electricity.
a person doesn't want to be thirsty.
Sometimes conducting a trial causes a verdict.
washing clothes requires clothes.
 A room is a part of a building.
You are likely to find haircutting scissors in a salon.
Sometimes playing Frisbee causes sweat.
riding a bicycle requires learning to ride a bicycle.
You are likely to find a heifer in a dairy barn.
cans can be recycled.
a bullet is for murdering.
One of the things you do when you clean your room is vacuum.
Something you find in the refrigerator is a shelf.
checking vital signs is for seeing if someone is alive.
If you want to sign a contract then you should read it first.
If you want to buy presents then you should go to a mall.
Something you find in the cellar is rats.
Something you find at a show is a stage.
Project financing is a method of financing for a specific project.
Old books can be very expensive.
Something you find in the cellar is the washing machine.
You are likely to find meat in a grocery store.
Using rented bowling shoes is a very icky thing to do.
Something that might happen when you eat lunch is you wash your hands.
A side chair is a chair without armrests.
Something you might do while using a computer is play games.
Idli is a type of flatbread.
Allen Iverson is a skilled athlete.
a person doesn't want to be pushed around.
a step chair is a small ladder.
needing a good grade would make you want to attend class.
a minute is a unit of angular measurement equal to one sixtieth of a degree.
A tale is a long story.
A thruway is a high-speed highway with limited access.
You are likely to find wash and wear fabric in a department store.
XML is a meta-markup language.
If you want to build a cathedral then you should buy a land.
You are likely to find Raleigh in north Carolina. 
You are likely to find a subway pass in a purse.
A rabbi is a Jewish clergyman.
a container can is used for holding things.
burlap is a coarse, strong fabric.
Poisons can kill.
Swimming is another activity.
Aunts are your parent's sisters.
A tablespoon is a unit of measure used in the activity of cooking.
Something you find at a park is a swing set. 
a person wants connection and vital psychological well-being.
people often want privacy.
Openmind is an artificial intelligence project.
A demo is an instance of a song.
You would tape a television show because you want to watch it again.
lettuce is part of a cheeseburger.
Something you find at the farmer's market is a turnip.
Depth is a spatial dimension.
Something that might happen when you drive a car is you arrive at your destination.
The last thing you do when you buy food is pay.
Venus has a thick atmosphere.
a Swiss army knife is a practical tool that fits in a pocket.
You are likely to find a fungus in your foot.
You would conduct a trial because you want justice.
Gasoline is a fuel.
going to a baseball game requires paying for a ticket.
If you want to watch a film then you should turn on the TV. 
A kiss is an act in which two people express affection for one another by pressing their lips together.
You can use a tripod to keep a camera steady.
TV is an abbreviation for television.
vinyl is a synthetic fiber.
One of the things you do when you go into a trance is you lose consciousness.
dogs aren't birds.
exercise would make you want to rest.
radio is an audible media.
Sometimes finding a lost item causes relief.
chords are used for music.
You are likely to find a sky in a planet.
You are likely to find stamps in a post office. 
iron can be melted.
Finding things is an important activity.
analyzing something is for learning from it.
a stadium is a big place.
Something you find over the rainbow is the Land of Oz.
blenders are made of plastic.
a surface is for putting things on.
The effect of drinking alcohol is frequent urination.
You are likely to find a ficus in the dirt.
Somewhere a phone can be is in an office.
You are likely to find a tourniquet in a first aid kit.
Something you find in the closet is an assortment of clothing and shoes.
Chocolate is food.
Most brass instruments are a kind of instrument.
painting a picture is for artistic expression.
A minute is a segment of time.
Something you find atop a mountain is wind.
You are not likely to find a ferret in the brain.
The last thing you do when you urinate is flush the toilet.
beer is not a kind of milk.
Something you find on a pizza is sausage.
You are likely to find milk in tea.
If you want to play a guitar then you should take guitar lessons.
The effect of stars is gravitational pull.
recording something requires taking a picture.
You are likely to find water in tea.
earning a living requires working at a job.
a towel rack is for Drying towels.
a person doesn't want to go blind.
Something you might do while making people laugh is laugh.
If a telephone has a rotary dial then it is old fashioned.
Something you need to do before you eat is get the food.
You are likely to find an air terminal in an airport.
Vertebrates have spines.
Something you find at Disneyland is hot dogs.
You are likely to find a mouse in a cheese.
Something you find on a desktop is a coffee mug.
Something that might happen when you drink is you stumble.
You are likely to find a toll road in Massachusetts. 
Something that might happen as a consequence of having food is weight gain.
some houses have verandas.
an American can speak English.
a pen is used for writing letters.
Something that might happen as a consequence of running is exhaustion.
If you want to wage war then you should have an army.
going to a concert is for music lovers.
Something that might happen while catching mumps is having a sore throat.
mammals are hairy.
bananas are curved.
Eggs are sort of round.
You would set a cup on a table because you don't want to hold it.
a person can wear clothes.
a tub is used for soaking.
a minister is for preaching.
a woodwind instrument is used for music.
Babysitters take care of children.
Elephants are very big animals.
If you want to climb then you should use a rope.
a concert hall is used for listening to music.
Something that might happen while taking a walk is you breath in fresh air.
You would die because you are old.
teachers can school children.
a hardware shop is for buying ladders.
taking the car for a drive is for Relaxation.
silver is for Making into money.
Something you find at work is sloth.
a person doesn't want a torn ligament.
One of the things you do when you have a haircut is pay the barber.
going for a swim is for fun.
Eggs are good for food.
Sometimes printing on the printer causes the cat to be curious.
people can weather a storm.
A face is part of a clock.
You are likely to find a garden hose in a yard.
a person wants liberty.
thinking is for solving.
Something that might happen as a consequence of cashing in is getting rich.
a mandolin is a musical instrument that resembles a guitar.
You can use kindling to start a fire.
You are likely to find a sound control room in a studio.
One of the things you do when you flirt is make eye contact.
You are likely to find a fungus in the ground.
If you want to sign a contract then you should find a pen.
thinking is for creativity.
Something you find in the refrigerator is juice.
You can use a pool to add moisture to the air.
Something you find in a pantry is shelving.
You are likely to find a business class airplane seat in an airplane.
being hungry would make you want to eat a cookie.
Something you find at a race track is people.
a launching platform is for launching probes.
Something you find at a rest area is trucks.
You are likely to find ink in an inkwell.
a toilet seat is used for comfortable sitting.
Something you find on the roof is roofing.
Maids can iron shirts.
playing cards requires a deck of cards.
You are likely to find a human in a garage.
a cannon is used for killing an enemy.
You are likely to find a glass of milk in the kitchen.
If you want to play lacrosse then you should join a lacrosse team.
You would wage war because you want to protect your country.
A booth has a door.
You are likely to find a toy car in a toy box One of the things you do when you make bread is use yeast.
A living space.
Something you might do while signing a contract is reading the small print.
You can use a turnstile to control a crowd.
Something you find in the sock drawer is unmatched socks.
A bolt and a nut are a fastening device.
Stethoscopes amplify sound.
answering questions is for satisfying a questioner.
If you want to wash your clothes then you should sort the clothes by color.
going to a performance is for pleasure.
Something that might happen as a consequence of tying your shoelace is your shoes don't fall off.
releasing your energy is for working.
If you want to chew your food then you should use your teeth.
Something you might do while going to work is start your car.
You are likely to find a state highway in California. 
Sometimes returning to work causes you to earn money.
Penicillin is an antibiotic.
Flowering plants bloom.
Something that might happen while visiting an art gallery is viewing art.
judging someone requires knowing yourself.
Something you find under your bed is dirty magazines.
painting a picture is for expressing yourself.
a person wants an egg sandwich.
Somewhere a liver can be is inside a person.
dirty dishes smell.
Music is a very important part of life.
Something you find at a drive-in movie is parking spaces.
Something that might happen when you visit an art gallery is people looking at art.
curiosity would make you want to see artifacts.
sailing is a kind of activity.
You are likely to find a tool in a tool box.
Something that might happen as a consequence of discovering the truth is you loose your religion.
a sofa is for watching TV Something you find in a classroom is people.
humans can drive cars.
You would climb because you want to reach the top.
You would drive your car because you want to use gas.
a person wants fresh fruit.
a principal manages a school.
You are likely to find a swimming pool in a backyard.
You would fix a computer because you want to send an email.
rooms normally have 4 walls.
Sometimes going to the pub causes drunkenness. 
taking a midterm is for measuring progress.
a file is for the keeping of records.
You are likely to find a prince in a castle.
old things are often called antiques.
You are likely to find a horse in a horse show.
seeing if someone's home would make you want to make a phone call.
Somewhere policemen can be is at the scene of a crime.
People are living things.
You would ski because you want to take chances.
a bay is for fishing in.
Something you might do while spending money is open the purse.
Companies will sometimes hold parties in offices.
Something that might happen when you type is moving your fingers.
You would buy something for a loved one because they need it.
You are likely to find a telephone booth in gas stations.
The first thing you do when you plan a vacation is decide on a location.
a person wants luck.
listening to music is for Entertainment.
going to a play is for having fun.
You would run after the ball because you want to win.
Students take courses at colleges.
Something you might do while committing to memory is think repetitively.
a spa is used for relaxation and rejuvenation. 
Something you find in the freezer is frozen meat.
Somewhere a lawn mower can be is in a shed.
Something that might happen while contemplating is you fall asleep.
forgiving someone is for showing compassion.
You are likely to find a beam in a ceiling.
You can use a bathtub to take a bath in.
a class assignment would make you want to write a story.
You are likely to find a prince in England.
Most T-shirts do not have buttons.
You are likely to find a cigarette in a hand.
You are likely to find a factory in a city.
Something you find at a home is rooms.
Plants do not run.
You are likely to find a king in a palace.
You are likely to find a brother in the house.
The effect of hurting someone else is punishment.
contemplating requires concentration.
You would drink alcohol because you want to relax.
You are likely to find a stove in a house.
Sometimes exercising causes fatigue.
meat is used for meals.
Sometimes destroying your enemy causes sadness.
participants in a game are called players.
One of the things you do when you work with a computer is move the mouse.
Committing a crime can lead to a punishment.
Mountain climbing is dangerous.
You would write a program because you want it to do a job.
women can give birth.
Guests can stay at a hotel.
being with a child would make you want to play games.
You are likely to find a passenger ticket in your pocket.
a call is for communicating.
An activity a student can do is think for himself.
needing to know something would make you want to read a book.
Something you find at a concert is lots of speakers.
a pike may be a type of fish.
Something that might happen when you go to a sporting event is you yell loudly.
You are likely to find a beaver in the wilderness in North America.
yellow is a primary color. 
you can use math to add two numbers.
Something that might happen while instituting a civil action is you pay fees.
If you want to lie then you should not tell the truth.
Something you find at the beach is a volleyball.
playing a game of chess is for a mental challenge.
Something that might happen while visiting other countries is you eat new food.
a gardener can water the lawn.
a market is for selling things.
Something you find at the library is dust.
Something that might happen while reading the newspaper is the dog wants you to pay attention to him.
You would swim because you want to cool down.
You are likely to find a swimming pool in a back yard.
You are likely to find a general store in towns.
showing off your dog would make you want to entertain people.
You would go for a drive because you need to go somewhere.
You are likely to find a wristwatch in a jewelry store.
You are likely to find a leather in a cobbler's shop.
Something that might happen as a consequence of growing vegetables is food.
a cocktail cabinet is for mixing drinks.
a fan makes wind.
Sometimes getting something causes satisfaction.
You are likely to find a main traffic artery in a city.
curiosity would make you want to become a scuba diver.
The effect of sitting down is comfort.
Something you find at school is custodians.
Something that might happen as a consequence of standing up is your body is erect.
a book is used for learning about languages.
a motherboard is used for making computers.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in a Thai restaurant.
Something that might happen as a consequence of resting is relaxation.
getting a contract requires money.
Something you find in the ocean is dolphins.
frogs can jump.
The last thing you do when you clean clothing is fold them.
You would read a book because you want to know the story.
You are likely to find a purse in a handbag.
A person can control her own reproduction.
A word is made of letters.
The effect of going on the Internet is reading.
If you want to get in line then you should conform.
You are likely to find a cat in the barn.
eating lunch is for satisfying your hunger.
Something you might do while attending a rock concert is yell.
Something you find on a desk is a monitor.
a person wants self-esteem.
Something you need to do before you use a VCR is put in a tape.
You would answer questions because you want to teach.
You would eat some food because you are hungry.
Something you might do while spending money is buy goods.
Something that might happen while sitting down is you watch TV.
Sometimes learning a language causes communication with others.
You are likely to find a scene in a movie.
fur is for insulation.
Jupiter's core is thought to consist primarily of metallic hydrogen.
You would tell a story because you want to entertain children.
Something you need to do before you walk the dog is hook the leash to the collar.
dogs like to chew on things.
If you want to see a band then you should attend a concert.
If you want to buy presents then you should get some money.
a person wants self-control.
You can use a correction fluid to cover a mistake.
Something you find at a fast-food restaurant is a salt shaker.
a first class airplane seat is for sitting in.
Something that might happen when you go for a drive is getting gas.
Something you find at a hotel is room service.
You can use a tear off calendar to keep track of the date.
Music sets a mood.
Something that might happen when you add up numbers is getting a total.
Something you might do while designing software is make a plan.
Sometimes running out of steam causes fatigue.
fireman can put out a fire.
cleaning your clothes is for appearance.
If you want to sleep at night then you should relax.
Sometimes washing dirt from between your toes causes cleanliness.
Some criminals want to get caught.
Enthusiasm is contagious.
Something that might happen as a consequence of hearing singing is the dog howls.
You are likely to find a rosebush in need of attention.
a Frisbee is for catching.
a person wants a larger house.
a launching pad is for rockets.
driving a car is for getting somewhere.
The effect of watching TV is to be entertained.
Something you find on the porch is a hound dog.
buying a shirt requires knowing the correct size.
muscles are used for movement.
There are 9 planets in our solar system.
Something you find on a table is pepper.
running for an office would make you want to prepare for a vote.
A wedding ring is a symbol of eternal love.
getting in shape is for living longer.
If you want to go to a Laundromat then you should leave your house.
The effect of lighting a fire is creating a flame.
You are likely to find snow in Alaska. 
a gambler can win money.
You are likely to find a pill in a bottle.
Something you find in the newspaper is a classified ad.
an actor doesn't want a bad review.
You are likely to find a general ledger in an accountant's office.
a necklace is a piece of jewelry.
a hairdryer is for styling your hair.
trucks can pull trailers.
Something you might do while drinking is buy a round.
A king is part of a chess set.
A husband can trust his wife.
You are likely to find a container in the cupboard.
memories of your child would make you want to record something.
You would pretend because you want to be an actor.
The world is in a state of accelerating environmental degradation.
Something that might happen when you grow vegetables is bees pollinate the flowers.
You can use a beach towel to have a sunbath.
A diamond can last forever.
Something you need to do before you drive a car is learn to drive.
You would go to a baseball game because you want to watch.
A towel rack is often found in a bathroom.
Something you might do while diving is take the cat with you.
Bagels taste great with cream cheese.
a junior high is a kind of school.
One of the things you do when you learn a language is learn a new word.
You are likely to find a ladder in a hardware store.
You would become inebriated because you want to drink more beer than anyone else.
Some actors act in movies.
An eggplant is a vegetable.
Something you might do while going to the store is buy milk.
A bear can fish for salmon.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having an asthma attack is you take medication.
Sometimes seeing old things causes memories.
If you want to urinate then you should unzip your pants.
sending e-mail is for staying in touch.
One of the things you do when you apply for a job is take an interview.
You are likely to find a barbershop in a shopping mall.
If you want to go to work then you should get ready.
Something that might happen while eating vegetables is you choke on a carrot.
bringing home some fish is for making a dinner.
a spirit is for Haunting.
humans can eat meat.
morning would make you want to have a shower.
Something you find at a gallery opening is rich people.
The effect of reading a newspaper is learning about the world.
You would maintain muscle strength because you want to look good.
You are likely to find a game in a game room. 
You are likely to find a paper fastener in a desk drawer.
a person can plant a flower.
Something you might do while sleighing is sing songs.
Something you might do while feeding your family is prepare a meal.
Something you find in a bedroom is a night stand.
You are likely to find a cat in Kansas.
Something you might do while listening to the radio is change the channel.
typing requires pressing keys.
a classroom is for taking tests.
a mess would make you want to clean the house.
washing your car is for keeping it clean.
Something you find in the oven is baking bread.
going for a walk is for relaxation.
You would go see a play because it is entertaining.
some men wear their hair long.
You are likely to find a stage entrance in a theater.
If you want to stop your car then you should depress the brake pedal.
Something you need to do before you get a job is go for an interview.
a chain has links.
playing tennis requires a tennis racket.
having a party requires music.
You are likely to find a restaurant storage area in a restaurant.
A person has a belly button.
Something that might happen as a consequence of memorizing is knowledge.
gardening would make you want to get clean.
Something you find at a mall is clothes.
A vase is a kind of vessel.
a study is used for reading.
painting is for decorating.
a person doesn't want Small pox.
the eye can sense light.
Something you find on the lawn is mushrooms.
You would get a job because you want to get paid.
You are likely to find an amphitheater in a park.
T-shirts are used to display logos.
You are likely to find a tablespoon in a kitchen.
You would move a car because you want it someplace else.
You are likely to find a rifle in an armory.
sleighing requires a horse.
Television is advertising.
love can last forever.
new York is really big.
You are likely to find a market in a city.
Tulips are colorful flowers.
competing against someone requires an edge.
You can use a birth control pill to avoid pregnancy.
Something you find at a train station is a platform.
A lens focuses light.
Sometimes having a heart attack causes a fear of death.
Pounds is the plural of pound.
a seafood restaurant is used for eating lobster.
A vasoconstrictor is any drug that narrows blood vessels.
playing basketball requires a hoop.
If you want to sleep then you should lay down.
Something you find on the lawn is a lawn chair.
a lead pencil is used for taking a test.
You would record something because you want to keep records.
an interstate highway is for driving.
You are likely to find a cow in a green pasture.
Garlic is a kind of spice.
Something that might happen when you receive a degree is you get a job.
The effect of jumping rope is an increased heart rate.
You are likely to find a leader in a group of people.
You can use an entrance to go in.
The effect of breathing some fresh air is oxygen intake.
The last thing you do when you pay cash is receive change.
If you want to walk around a lake then you should find a lake and walk around it.
An activity pilots can do is fly jets.
The effect of drinking alcohol is intoxication.
If you want to get something then you should pick it up.
a baseball game consists of 9 innings.
Fabrics are made of cotton.
Sometimes using a computer causes aggravation.
Something you might do while seeing a particular program is turn down the volume.
Something you find at a carnival is music.
Plastic foam floats on water.
Something that might happen as a consequence of eating breakfast is you get energy.
a fast food restaurant counter is for ordering food at.
detergent is for cleaning.
The effect of having a party is tiring.
Something you might do while falling is grasp for a support.
Something you find at a conference is lectures.
You are likely to find a Spanish restaurant in Spain. 
People cannot regenerate their limbs.
Sometimes lying causes sadness.
Something you find in the sock drawer is underwear.
Something you find at the movies is a concession stand.
Comets orbit the sun.
The effect of drinking alcohol is loss of intelligence.
a thirsty person wants something to drink.
skiing requires skis.
walking around a lake requires time.
pills would make you want to go to sleep.
a hose is for washing the car.
The last thing you do when you go to a concert is leave the concert hall.
You are likely to find an eraser holder in a desk.
a car is a motor vehicle.
You would commit to memory because you want to recall.
One of the things you do when you play a game of chess is get a strategy.
a pad is for paper.
A typewriter can be used to write a novel.
a boat is for launching.
Sometimes using a VCR causes everyone to gather in the living room to watch a movie.
praying is for talking with God.
a royal flush beats all other poker hands.
a person doesn't want to be without money.
some shoes are made of leather.
a person wants other people to love him.
basketball is a fast game.
sorrow would make you want to forgive someone.
Sometimes having an asthma attack causes you to pass out.
Somewhere kelp can be is under water.
Fast is the opposite of slow.
a vase can hold a flower.
Something that might happen as a consequence of watching a television show is being entertained.
An activity a doctor can do is prescribe medicine.
going to bed is for taking a nap.
Most dogs like to catch flying Frisbees. 
Something that might happen while running a marathon is dogs bark at you.
bills would make you want to get a job.
Something that might happen when you pay by credit card is it gets declined.
Something you find at a wedding is a veil.
Something you might do while skating is fall down hard.
reading would make you want to take the bus.
The first thing you do when you make a phone call is pick up the receiver.
chocolate chips would make you want to eat a cookie.
You can use a hide-a-bed sofa to be comfortable.
A clarinet is a member of the woodwind section.
driving in your car would make you want to listen to the radio.
If you want to propose to a woman then you should buy an engagement ring.
paper can be thrown out.
Something you might do while watching a TV show is laugh out loud.
You would read a book because it relaxes you.
You would sew because you want to enjoy making something.
seeing a dirty house would make you want to do the housework.
Something that might happen as a consequence of fighting inflation is you buy cheaper flowers.
sending e-mail requires the Internet. 
Something that might happen while building a tower out of toy blocks is you knock it down.
a sky is used for rain.
The effect of learning a language is better communication with more people.
taking advantage of someone is bad.
You would impanel a jury because you want fairness.
You can use a mother to comfort you.
If you want to do housework then you should buy brooms.
warm weather would make you want to go for a swim.
Sometimes socializing causes friendships.
eating vegetables is for getting your vitamins.
Sometimes answering questions causes satisfaction.
Something you might do while fencing is thrusting.
Something you find on a pizza is onions.
You can use a toilet tank to hold water.
Something you might do while watering a plant is fertilize.
You would surf because it is fun.
Something that might happen when you go to a baseball game is you get peanuts.
You can use a beanie baby to toss.
You would eat vegetables because you want to have carrots.
A person who likes to ride horses is an equestrian.
lack of time would make you want to tape a television show.
playing the violin requires a violin bow.
You are likely to find a mouse in old houses.
Something that might happen as a consequence of being involved in an accident is you die.
getting in line is for waiting for your turn.
Children are young.
You are likely to find a banjo in a country band.
Sometimes joining the army causes pride in your dad.
a text is used for teaching.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going into a coma is losing consciousness.
Sometimes posting a message causes a response.
a mill is for making paper.
Sometimes exercise causes injury.
Something that might happen while seeing a movie is you drink a coke.
You are likely to find a T-shirt in a souvenir shop.
mathematics is the language of nature.
America is the land of the free.
You would get a good grade because you want to pass.
You can use toilet paper to blow your nose.
Sometimes opening a bag of chips causes weight gain.
Everything changes.
Something that might happen as a consequence of fighting the enemy is they begin to hate you.
building a tower out of toy blocks is for playtime.
seeing a movie is for relaxing.
Something you might do while examining a thing is read the forward.
fabric is for clothing.
The first thing you do when you use a television is turn it on.
Something you might do while dancing is having fun.
crossing the street requires stepping off a curb.
Something that might happen while seeing an exciting story is your heart races.
having lunch is for taking a break from work.
Sometimes playing soccer causes fights.
Something you find in the garage is a garage door opener.
contemplating requires lucid thought.
an index card drawer is for storing index cards.
You are likely to find a book end in a library.
One of the things you do when you open a gift is thank the giver.
Sometimes having a heart attack causes bypass surgery.
If you want to go to a baseball game then you should buy tickets to a baseball game.
love would make you want to talk with someone far away.
a person wants to own their own business.
a mechanical pencil is for writing.
a spring day would make you want to fly a kite.
Something you find in a jar is nails.
You would destroy your enemy because you want to be stronger.
You are likely to find a check in desk in a hotel.
Something that might happen when you attend a classical concert is you hear music.
Something you find on a roof is leaves.
Something that might happen when you have an epileptic fit is your body shakes.
A worm is an animal.
Something you might do while flying in an airplane is read a book.
Something you find at an airport is a waiting room.
watching a film is for relaxation.
Something you find in a cabinet is medicine.
Something you might do while reading a book is blink.
The effect of having fun is pleasure.
Something that might happen when you snore is you disturb people.
You can use a bassoon to make music.
Something that might happen when you work is you produce goods.
Something that might happen while stopping your car is turn off engine.
computing a sum requires an understanding of math.
a person wants to receive a PhD.
Something that might happen as a consequence of standing in a queue is waiting your turn.
Something that might happen as a consequence of remembering is knowing.
Something that might happen while kissing is you get sick.
The effect of doing the housework is a nicer home.
You would feed your family because you want them to be healthy.
Something you might do while living is have fun.
One of the things you do when you live a life is breathe.
Something that might happen while going for a swim is a fish bites you.
Something you need to do before you take the car for a drive is adjust the driver's seat.
You are likely to find a jar in a refrigerator.
If you want to take a bath then you should fill the bathtub with water.
eating quickly requires soup.
Something you find in a locker room is showers.
Something you need to do before you hear singing is listen.
Something you find in the oven is pizza.
You are likely to find a kingdom in a monarchy.
You would drink because you want to quench your thirst.
If you want to talk with someone far away then you should scream real loud.
Something that might happen when you clean your clothes is remove spots.
Something you find at a swimming pool is drain.
Something you find in a suitcase is a book.
Trees are a type of plant.
Something you might do while getting a job is provide references.
Something that might happen while looking through a telescope is you see the moon.
If you want to grow vegetables then you should plant vegetable seeds.
Something you might do while finding information is learn other things as well.
A mediator can settle arguments.
A person doesn't want to be obese.
Something you find at the supermarket is Lima beans.
You can use a canal to connect two bodies of water.
Something that might happen when you go to the pub is getting drunk.
a track is used for running.
If you want to reach a tentative agreement then you should talk.
You can use a teaspoon to measure ingredients.
You would play ball because you want to enjoy yourself.
Something that might happen when you sit down is you fart.
Something that might happen while waiting tables is serving food to customers.
If you want to watch the evening news then you should turn on the T.V.
the universe is everything.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing soccer is having fun.
The first thing you do when you program is make coffee.
The first thing you do when you stay in bed is sleep.
paying cash is for Paying for services.
a doll is used for child's play.
plants are often smoked for recreation.
You can use a luggage trolley to move suitcases.
You are likely to find garbage waste in a street.
The last thing you do when you catch mumps is recover.
Something you might do while jumping at the chance is get excited.
recording something is for keeping a record.
Something that might happen as a consequence of dancing is having fun.
Something you might do while examining a thing is examine it forensically.
Ceilings are usually painted.
children are curious.
climbing a mountain is for Exercise.
Something you find in a cell is DNA.
You can use a token slot to insert your token.
Something that might happen when you start a family is having a baby.
You would go to work because you want to earn money.
Something that might happen as a consequence of lighting a match is an explosion.
A college degree can further your career.
If you want to entertain people then you should throw a party.
You are likely to find a grape in an arbor.
A student is part of a class.
Farmers plant.
Meat is the muscle tissue of animals.
You would go home because you were tired.
Groups can include individuals.
A lid can cover a pot.
Something you find at the front door is a peep hole.
hanging out at the bar is for Socializing. 
a clock is for keeping track of time.
a person doesn't want to be enslaved.
You are likely to find a tack in a carpet.
a student can guess the answer.
You are likely to find a trombone in an orchestra.
the bank keeps money for people.
An iris is part of an eye.
You are likely to find a knight in a castle.
Something you find in bed is dust mites.
If you want to run a marathon then you should get in shape.
Some turtles live on land.
You are likely to find a beaver in Ontario.
a person doesn't want to be broke.
Something you find in a casino is money.
You are likely to find a cooling device in a computer.
You are likely to find a separate shower in a locker room.
Malls are usually too crowded.
People hear sounds by using their ears.
seeing art is for entertainment.
The last thing you do when you cook a meal is serve it.
Something that might happen while becoming inebriated is slurring of words.
the ear is a sensory organ.
A predator can spot her prey.
Something you find in a pantry is noodles.
a child can clean a room.
Cooking is fun.
Trains are used for travel.
A light bulb is a light source.
a piano is for accompanying an orchestra.
Rocks sink in water.
Shoes are clothing.
If you want to take final exams then you should go to class.
If you want to write a term paper then you should research the subject.
A malamute is a kind of dog.
Sometimes having a conversation causes arguments.
a labeler is used for making labels.
You would put a sweater on because you are cold.
Something that might happen when you find the truth is you are saddened.
Mountain bikes have suspension.
a person doesn't want unsolicited advice.
You are likely to find a stamp pad in an office.
You are likely to find a church in a community.
Partridge is a bird.
Movies are a form of popular entertainment.
a parking structure is used for cars.
Something you might do while paying by check is signing.
A frame is part of a painting.
remembering is for love.
Something you need to do before you sleep is get comfortable.
One of the things you do when you exercise is increase your metabolism.
Waiters serve food and drink.
Something you find at a friend's house is comfort.
The first thing you do when you test the car is get in the car.
Safety pins are used for holding fabric together.
You are likely to find oil in Iraq.
Something you find at the supermarket is a grapefruit.
emptying your bladder is for relief.
Something you find in the forest is tress.
Something you find on a boat is cargo.
selling your new book is for getting money.
A clarinet is a woodwind instrument.
Dogs like to bury bones.
People eat dinner at the table.
If you want to have a shower then you should have water.
You can use an index card to take notes.
A novel is a book.
A salad is a type of food.
If you want to have a haircut then you should own some scissors.
Children can succeed their parents.
Some people sleep on futons.
South Carolina is part of the United States of America.
You would play soccer because you enjoy sports.
A bass guitar usually has four strings.
One of the things you do when you view a video is sit on the couch.
If you want to become inebriated then you should drink a lot of alcohol.
Something that might happen as a consequence of being involved in an accident is getting hurt.
You are likely to find a radio studio in any large city.
You can use a trash container to hold trash.
You are likely to find a lizard in an aquarium.
flirting is for having fun.
A car is used to go somewhere.
Sometimes using a computer causes carpal tunnel syndrome.
You are likely to find a rosebush in a garden center.
Something you find in the cupboard is a shelf.
Some flowers are perennials.
A Tortilla is used to make a taco.
Something you find on the sea is a bird.
Something you find at a wedding is a ring bearer.
Dice are used to play games of chance.
Something you find in the sky is a bee.
You are likely to find a cold faucet in your home.
Something you find at fairgrounds is a pig.
Some flowers attract bees.
If you want to see exhibits then you should go to exhibitions.
Something you find on a desktop is a mouse.
If you want to get clean then you should bathe.
Something you might do while talking is speak.
If you want to play Frisbee then you should do it outside.
If you want to enjoy the day then you should be in a good mood.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying a shirt is losing money.
a person doesn't want to be stalked.
You are likely to find a ballpoint pen in a desk drawer.
Something you find in a boat is a flare gun.
An advertisement would make you want to watch a film.
Something you need to do before you run twenty-six miles is get in shape.
April is the fourth month of the year.
Something you find under your bed is a lost sock.
You can use a choker to decorate your neck.
Something that might happen while pretending is religion.
vinyl is a better format than CD or tape.
Something you find in a cabinet is a plate.
Something you find atop the refrigerator is bread.
Somewhere a nail can be is in a board.
You are likely to find a window on or in a home.
a push pin has a sharp point.
One of the things you do when you kill someone is hide the evidence.
A brain can splatter.
One of the things you do when you drill a hole is find oil.
Something you find in a plane is an oxygen mask.
One of the things you do when you get up early is set your alarm clock.
Sometimes standing in line causes frustration.
A coat hanger is for hanging clothes.
a person doesn't want loneliness.
You are likely to find a chest in a bedroom.
You would play games because you want to entertain yourself.
One of the things you do when you enjoy the company of your friends is laugh.
Something you find at the farmer's market is vendors.
Something that might happen when you see old things is nostalgia.
a barn is for storing hay.
Earth is a planet in our solar system.
If you want to answer questions then you should speak up.
running twenty six miles is for a marathon runner.
getting a good grade is for pleasing your parents.
Something you find at the front door is a door mat.
Something that might happen when you run in a marathon is you become tired.
watching a film requires eyes.
A tripod dolly has three legs.
You would buy fresh fruits and vegetables because you want to eat fresh fruits and vegetables.
Something you find in a garage is a person.
You would take a phone call because you want to talk to someone.
accidents can happen anytime.
Sometimes watching TV causes boredom.
If you want to use a computer then you should log in.
Something you find at a rest area is drinking fountains.
taking a bath is for getting clean.
glass can be colored.
You are likely to find a mayor in city hall.
Soap cleans things.
dogs are great companions.
You are likely to find a ring in a bath tub.
a person doesn't want to be negative.
A snare drum is a musical instrument.
You are likely to find a bridge in the river.
You are likely to find land in the ocean.
a stream is for swimming.
The first thing you do when you buy a shirt is go to the store.
people can wash their clothes.
Television stations can air programs.
laziness would make you want to satisfy appetites with minimum effort.
If you want to use a VCR then you should buy a VCR.
You are likely to find a grocer in the grocery store.
The first thing you do when you play chess is set up the board.
a person wants to feel in charge.
Vacuum cleaners are electric appliances.
A fan is used to cool people down.
listening to music would make you want to see a band.
telling a story requires a story to tell.
Something you might do while computing a sum is use a calculator.
You are likely to find a crab in rocks.
Sometimes seeing a particular program causes annoyance.
Curiosity would make you want to examine a thing.
Superman can spring into action from a telephone booth.
An activity a dog can do is chasing a ball.
Something you might do while wrestling is grappling.
reading a book is for entertaining yourself.
Sometimes competing against someone causes one winner.
You are likely to find a teaspoon in a kitchen.
You are likely to find train tracks in a city.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing lacrosse is someone may be injured.
Sunsets have rosy hues.
If you want to get a divorce then you should go to court.
You are likely to find a shower curtain in a department store.
One of the things you do when you wage war is attack the enemy.
some elephants live in Africa.
a person doesn't want to lose their arm.
You are likely to find an escalator in a department store.
A lot of people live in cities.
bears hibernate.
Something you find at the bottom of the sea is fish.
Something you might do while cooking a meal is eat.
getting warm is for body heat.
Something you need to do before you pay by credit card is buy something.
If you want to use a calculator then you should find a calculator.
water is for helping plants grow.
Something you find in the oven is food baking.
a company can commit crime.
If you want to laugh at a joke then you should open your mouth.
You are likely to find a transit ticket in the subway.
a handle is used for pulling.
getting onto the web is for finding information.
You are likely to find a dustbin in a utility closet.
Colleges are a kind of school.
Photographs are pictures.
You are likely to find a brick row house in a neighborhood.
outer space is cold.
a bad reputation would make you want to improve your image.
A skink is a type of lizard.
a quill brush is used for writing with ink.
Boredom would make you want to watch TV.
a student can learn to read.
Something that might happen while complaining about the state of the world is people tune you out.
You are likely to find a cat in a back yard.
You would light a match because you want to start a fire.
painting a picture is for hobby.
You are likely to find silk in china.
pride would make you want to pass a class.
You are likely to find a blowfish in a restaurant.
Cattle eat grass.
A skink is a type of lizard.
Sometimes attending a classical concert causes boredom.
You are likely to find a grape in a produce store.
You are likely to find an apple tree in an apple grove.
the sky can be different colors.
a person drives a vehicle.
recitations are usually small.
Dogs come in all sizes.
You can use a drug to treat an illness.
A walk in closet holds lots of clothes.
big waves would make you want to surf.
winning a baseball game requires scoring more runs than the other team.
You are likely to find a staircase in a building.
If you want to follow a recipe then you should learn to read.
Something that might happen as a consequence of scoring a homer is you win the big game.
Something you find at a bus depot is people waiting for a bus.
a person wants to save money.
Sometimes going into a coma causes unconsciousness.
Alaska is a state.
Reading is fun.
The last thing you do when you get a contract is celebrate.
Kashmir is part of India.
anger would make you want to punch someone.
The first thing you do when you paint a house is choose the color.
One of the things you do when you wait in line is stand.
Orion is a constellation.
peanut butter is sticky.
some stores are restaurants.
Something that might happen as a consequence of scoring a home run is your team wins the game.
You are likely to find a graphite pencil in a school.
An activity mothers can do is change diapers.
Mules cannot reproduce.
If you want to go for a run then you should wear running clothes.
happiness would make you want to fiddle.
Something you find in the water is trace amounts of industrial chemicals.
The first thing you do when you cogitate is think.
a person wants to smell good.
Something you find in the newspaper is weather reports.
If you want to shop then you should get money.
Confetti is used to enhance a celebration.
You are likely to find a calendar in an office.
If you want to punish someone then you should send them to their room.
You are likely to find a lemur in a cage.
You would watch a movie because its fun.
Something you find in the purse is tissue.
A wall is a part of a building.
Sometimes finding the truth causes pain.
A verb is a part of speech.
Something that might happen while meeting interesting people is awe.
a doctor can help a sick person.
pigs are often pink.
remembering something requires knowing that something to begin with.
Something you might do while studying for a subject is drink coffee.
Something you find on a boat is flotation gear.
Soda pop comes in cans.
The effect of joining the army is death.
Something you find at a home is a lamp.
You are likely to find a neck in a body.
If you want to go see a play then you should go to a theater.
A person can enter a store.
A hacker can gather information about a computer.
You are likely to find a ticket office in a theatre.
People can doubt people.
selling out is bad.
reading requires concentrating.
You are likely to find a lizard in a reptile house.
A mine is a weapon.
gasoline can power a mower.
dogs can jump up.
Something you find on the fridge is magnetic poetry.
children can expect presents on their birthday.
You can use a hair clip to hold hair.
time moves forward.
A nanosecond is one-billionth of a second.
a beanie baby is used for collection.
plants take moisture from the soil.
clocks can mark the passage of time.
You are likely to find dark glasses in a store.
If you want to record something then you should use a recorder.
Something you find at a bar is barstools.
One of the things you do when you lose weight is exercise.
You are likely to find a grape in France.
If you want to eat an apple then you should wash it first.
You are likely to find a fox in a cage.
Something that might happen while getting exercise is you pull a muscle.
A landfill is a place for trash. 
Paper is a common form of trash when it is discarded.
Something you find at a race track is a mechanic.
People make glass.
a person doesn't want others to make fun of her.
Something you might do while using a computer is talk to your friends.
the nurse can page the doctor.
a pitcher mound is for baseball.
People need to breathe air.
floppy disks are almost obsolete.
Studying would make you want to get a good grade.
The last thing you do when you awake is open your eyes.
Something you need to do before you commit perjury is lie in court.
a pitcher mound is for throwing the ball.
maintaining muscle strength is for health.
ex-girlfriends are annoying.
Something you find on your desk is a list of things to do.
meeting a friend is for communication.
getting a job is for earning a living.
a cloud is used for rain.
Something you need to do before you eat lunch is wash your hands.
One of the things you do when you fix a computer is take the cover off.
hanging out at the bar is for having a drink.
a person wants to drink water.
A brain is part of a person.
Something you find at Disneyland is a big castle.
a person wants good vodka.
fishing requires bait.
running in a marathon is for accomplishment.
Something that might happen while listening to music is enjoyment.
You are likely to find an apple tree in Pennsylvania.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going jogging is that you get shin splints.
people can group together.
Vacuum cleaners are loud.
a person can buy food.
You are likely to find a fast food restaurant in a mall.
a calendar book is used for planning.
There are many books in libraries.
You can use a baggage to carry your clothes.
Something that might happen while standing in a queue is impatience.
Something you find in a restaurant is bottles of ketchup.
Some drugs are bad for you.
You are likely to find a heifer in a herd of cattle.
You are likely to find a menu in a cafe.
Something that might happen when you eat a cookie is dunk it in milk.
a food store is a place to buy food.
a black hole is an object of great mass.
Something you find at the library is reference materials.
Sometimes winning a baseball game causes happiness.
Something you find on the beach is dry seaweed.
people are persons.
Something you might do while learning is listen.
riding a bike is for transportation.
Something you find at a street corner is street lights.
You are likely to find a French horn in an orchestra.
a dish is for cooking.
Something you find in a container is a stored item.
You are likely to find eggs in a refrigerator.
a shoe is for walking.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in the grocery store.
People can swim across the English Channel.
Space is very large.
hetz midget arborvitae is a plant.
If you want to go to a movie then you should go.
some galaxies have an elliptical shape.
viewing a video is for Learning.
If you want to attend a classical concert then you should go to the symphony.
a hospital is for healing sick people.
You are likely to find a T-shirt in the T-shirt drawer.
a horn is used for music.
a person wants technology to help them.
playing football is for money.
Children like to play with yo-yos.
Something you need to do before you eat in a restaurant is order food.
a person wants contribution to society.
one hand has four fingers and a thumb.
You can use a leg to stand.
needing a map would make you want to print on the printer.
Some people can act in a play.
listening requires concentration.
A hat is usually worn on a person's head.
Sometimes having a physical exam causes discomfort.
You are likely to find a wagon in a garage.
You are likely to find a restaurant in a city.
BACKGAMMON IS A TWO-PLAYER GAME.
a person doesn't want to be worried.
taking a walk requires legs.
Something that might happen when you have a shower is you pee in it.
love is good.
Something you find on the surface of the earth is gravel.
Frogs are animals.
a movie and a book are media.
Something you find on the sea is foam.
You are likely to find a tower in a castle.
You are likely to find a coil in a refrigerator.
Something you find at a shop is items for sale.
Something you might do while going to the store is shop.
apples are the fruit of apple trees.
You are likely to find a gate in a fence.
You would have lunch because it is midday.
many plants have flowers.
oil is for cooking.
A bass clarinet is a reed instrument.
Kingfisher is a bird.
The last thing you do when you use a computer is shut it off.
kittens can be annoying.
Something you find at a bookstore is Atlases.
baking a cake is for eating.
hamburger is meat.
Something that might happen when you sneeze is you close your eyes.
If you want to stop your car then you should put your foot on the brake.
You are likely to find a trumpet in a trumpet case.
If you want to have an examination then you should schedule an appointment with a doctor.
You are likely to find a beer mug with a college boy.
Something you find at a carnival is entertainment and food.
You are likely to find a crab in a cooking pot.
Penguins can swim underwater.
Paris is the city of lights.
a person wants freedom of information.
An activity a cat can do is scratch.
Cats have four paws.
signing a contract requires commitment.
You are likely to find a wind instrument in the band.
Sometimes adding up numbers causes a sum.
wood is organic.
A seller can market his goods.
A teacher wants students to learn.
pigs snort.
You would pass a class because you want to advance to the next grade.
Something you might do while reaching an advantage is work hard.
Something you find in a library is a table.
A judge can fine a lawyer.
If you want to live a life then you should be born.
flowers produce pollen.
A plumber can hold that wrench.
Something that might happen while passing your university exams is studying.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going for a walk is getting exercise.
vegetables and trees are plants.
You are likely to find a hair roller in a beauty salon.
men wear ties around their neck.
The statement "You are likely to find silk in a fabric store" is true because Silk is a type of fabric.
Something that might happen when you tell a story is interruptions.
The man is skiing in the Rocky Mountains.
Something you find on the roof is bugs.
You would score a homer because you want to win the baseball game.
a person can drink milk.
The effect of lighting a match is making a flame.
You are likely to find an aisle in a store.
A city is a large community where people are lonesome together.
Something you find in the trash is a crumpled up ball of paper.
You are likely to find a heifer in farmer's field.
Something you need to do before you stand in line is find the line.
wine is made of grapes.
The last thing you do when you pay by credit card is sign the receipt.
a ribbon is for tying hair.
Something you find on a desk is a pencil holder.
Your parents' parents are your grandparents.
Something you find in the ocean is a starfish.
a person wants to listen to good music.
Something you find on a desk is a date stamp.
a clock is for timing something.
Something you find in the garage is old tires.
You are likely to find a gazelle in a savannah.
lighting a fire requires a match.
You can use a buffet to eat.
Sometimes baking a cake causes you to use eggs.
Something you find at the farmer's market is peas.
The effect of striking a match is creating a fire.
satisfying appetites with minimum effort requires careful planning.
If you want to play games then you should find an opponent.
If you want to go for a swim then you should jump in the water.
If you want to run errands then you should make time for them.
Something that might happen as a consequence of remembering a phone number is calling someone on the phone.
Something that might happen while going to school is making friends.
a fire can need fuel.
a desk is a place.
a mailbox is used for storing mail.
a stove can be hot.
trees have branches.
One of the things you do when you go for a swim is put on swimming suit.
You can use a telephone book to look up someone's telephone number.
a piece of information is for learning.
You are likely to find a doll in a toy box.
drinking apple juice is healthy.
Something you find in the purse is a pill.
a person wants to be understood.
You would start a family because you want to have children.
You would get fit because you are overweight.
Jesus can feed the multitudes.
You would wait tables because you want money.
a person wants interesting experiences.
a rug is used for decoration.
lighting a match is for lighting a candle.
You would go to a sporting event because its fun.
You would convict a suspect for a crime because you want justice.
Cats have retractable claws.
You can use a pair of pants to cover your legs.
You can use a finger to push a button.
Something you might do while having an epileptic fit is roll your eyes back.
You would sell your new book because you want to earn money.
A snake and a skunk are both animals.
Something that might happen when you go to a performance is you buy the programme.
Sometimes eating breakfast causes you to be more alert in the morning.
If you want to walk around a lake then you should go to a lake.
a mall is for meeting friends.
Merced is part of California.
Something you find in a cupboard is stuff to make cookies.
Something you find under the bed is junk.
You are likely to find dental floss in a medicine cabinet.
Radios use waves to transmit data.
a student doesn't want to fail their course.
You are likely to find a song in a CD.
Something you find at a meeting is bosses.
Something you find at the MIT Media Lab is a scientist.
Sometimes attending a classical concert causes relaxation.
a seafood restaurant is for serving fish.
Hypnosis would make you want to go into a trance.
Something you find at school is an education.
The Multiplan worksheet is a rectangular grid of rows and columns.
rubies are a stone.
The effect of seeing artifacts is wonder.
a classroom is for teaching students.
a person doesn't want ugliness.
Thomas Jefferson was President of the United States.
a love of music would make you want to attend a classical concert.
humans cannot digest steel.
Sometimes listening to music causes you to fall asleep.
Something you find at the movies is Milk Duds.
Something that might happen as a consequence of passing a course is graduating.
a Frisbee is for ultimate frisbee.
The last thing you do when you run errands is return home.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking a bath is becoming wet.
One of the things you do when you surprise someone is startle them.
paying by credit card is for putting off payments.
Something you might do while writing is use a pencil.
Something you find at a waterfall is photographers.
a person doesn't want to be left out.
Men are male.
A man can be washing his car.
You are likely to find a cutlery drawer in a restaurant.
You are likely to find a pen in an office supply store.
The effect of fiddling is music.
Champagne can also be romantic.
You can use an ottoman to put your feet on.
You are likely to find a ballpoint pen in your drawer.
One of the things you do when you stand in a queue is wait.
The first thing you do when you take a bath is run the water into the tub.
One of the things you do when you get in line is find the end of the line.
Something you find at a school is hot chicks.
The milky way is a spiral galaxy.
Something you find in the office is a fax machine.
You would begin work because you want to get money.
Something you find in the Arctic is cold.
some vehicles can move on water.
Something you find at the post office is the postmaster.
Something you need to do before you thank someone is have something to thank them for.
thanking someone is for being polite.
The Castro is part of San Francisco.
Something you find on the Internet is data.
Something you find on a desk is homework.
You would shout at the top of your voice because you want to be heard.
You would stand in a queue because you want to get something.
If you want to determine the truth then you should look into the facts.
a card catalog is used for library organization.
There are tombstones in a cemetery.
Colorado is a place.
Korea is a country.
Something you need to do before you play frisbee is get a frisbee.
a suspension cable is used to hold up a bridge.
One of the things you do when you watch a film is turn down the lights.
Something you find in your pocket is pocket lint.
A postcard is a card.
Something you find on the surface of the earth is trees.
committing murder is for killers.
having friends over is for a good time.
A cell nucleus is part of an animal cell.
a guard can guard a prison.
You are likely to find a dentist chair in a dentist office.
You are likely to find a condominium in Florida.
a CD is a disc.
boots are one type of footwear.
Lightening is electricity.
If you want to sate your hunger then you should feast.
wanting to look cool would make you want to smoke.
playing ball is for exercise and entertainment.
doctors help cure illness.
an animal is an organism.
You are likely to find the sky in Idaho.
You are likely to find ketchup in a refrigerator.
If you want to socialize then you should go to a club.
The effect of remembering something is not forgetting.
a theater seat is in a theater.
Some drugs are prohibited.
power lines carry electricity.
Something you might do while taking in a film is yawn.
the tire tool is used to loosen the big bolts.
an apple has a skin.
If you want to go to the hairdresser then you should get into the car.
Motorola is a company.
a person wants friendship.
Something you might do while putting a child to bed is pray with them.
You are likely to find a lizard in Bermuda.
You are likely to find a rule in a classroom.
Something you need to do before you attend a rock concert is buy the concert tickets.
You can use a toilet to barf in.
You are likely to find a molecule in your hand.
You can use a saucepan to heat food.
Something you find in space is novas.
An army can battle its enemy.
Something you find in the street is road kill.
Sometimes eating in a restaurant causes heartburn.
leaves are often green in color.
inmates can escape prisons.
If you want to eat lunch then you should go to a restaurant.
Something that might happen when you meet interesting people is conversation.
striking a match is for lighting a candle.
a clutch bag is used for carrying things in.
Something you find at the market is milk.
The last thing you do when you fall is hit the ground.
The brain likes to make comparisons.
some animals are edible.
Something you find in a box is a birthday present.
Something you find on the moon is moon dust.
You are likely to find a bullet in a casing.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in warm ocean waters.
Hummingbirds can fly backwards.
Microsoft is a software company.
Something you find on the subway is riders.
The English alphabet has 26 letters.
A mother can feed a baby.
You can use jeans to protect legs.
You would buy presents for others because you like them.
France is part of Europe.
You would wait on line because you want to buy a ticket.
a card is used for playing Poker.
Something you find at the supermarket is soap.
You are likely to find an ear in a person's head.
relaxing is for Reducing stress.
music would make you want to play the piano.
a person wants an open mind.
A criminal can face his accusers.
swimming is for Competition.
Something you find in a pantry is condiments.
people use water for hydration.
big cats can be dangerous.
a balloon is for Decoration.
If you want to go to work then you should get into the car.
You are likely to find a bombardon in a war.
A kayak is a type of boat.
alcoholism would make you want to hit the bottle.
If you want to do a crossword puzzle then you should have a pen.
Something that might happen while repairing an umbrella is it gets worse.
eating ice cream is for Enjoyment.
e pluribus Unum.
People can have fun.
A girl can pick a flower.
taping a television show is for Watching it again.
an eating place is for relaxing.
You are likely to find a cash coin in a purse.
a cardboard box is for holding things.
You are likely to find a bus stop in an urban area.
a chess pawn is used for sacrificing.
Something that might happen when you disobey the law is get arrested.
Saws are used to cut.
Something that might happen while seeing a movie is you fall asleep.
a jeweler can wind a watch.
Something you find at the market is stands.
a lantern is for illumination.
If you want to fight the enemy then you should join an armed force.
Something you find in the newspaper is a comic strip.
Something you find on a desk is white-out.
A person wants a source of income.
knitting is for Making clothes.
pumps are used to inflate something.
A soundstage is for making movies.
One of the things you do when you buy a house is pay for it.
Reading is for education.
The last thing you do when you stay fit is take a shower.
If you want to play tennis then you should have a racket.
there is more water than land on earth.
nothing is any color.
Something you might do while waking up in the morning is go to the bathroom.
washing clothes is for making clothes clean.
a person doesn't want to be attacked.
Something you find at the theater is people.
You are likely to find a baggage trunk in an airport.
The effect of crossing the street is getting to the other side of the street.
If you want to cook dinner then you should turn on the oven.
If you want to perform then you should rehearse.
You can use a soccer field to play a game of soccer.
The potoroo is an Australian mammal.
Something you might do while watching TV is eat snacks.
a store shelf is used for display.
Something you need to do before you lose weight is go on a diet.
Something you find under a bridge is rock.
a brass instrument is used for a marching band.
You can use beer to get drunk.
a friend is used for companionship.
If you want to fish then you should get a fishing pole.
You would lie because you want candy.
Cats like to play with string.
Buttons are used to turn some things off.
You are likely to find a seat in an auditorium.
You are likely to find ice cream on or in a restaurant.
Something you find in a house is a furnace.
The last thing you do when you go to sleep is close your eyes.
The shape of a baby's face triggers maternal feelings in many adult humans.
Somewhere an actor can be is on television.
Sometimes attending class causes you to learn new things.
A car can head north.
Basketball players tend to be very tall.
You are likely to find The Earth around The Sun.
Something you need to do before you write a term paper is study.
A glass can be on the table.
If you want to socialize then you should talk to people.
If you want to be in charge of a project then you should be the boss.
carpenters can nail things with a hammer.
a one person chair is for one person to sit in.
photos can record weddings.
An accident can happen to anybody.
You are likely to find a capital in each state.
Something you find at a bar is liquor.
waiting in line is for patient people.
Sometimes paying by check causes an overdraft.
fortune cookies taste good.
a kosher restaurant is for Jewish people.
a shadow is cast in the direction opposite of the light source.
An angry mob is an ugly thing.
a counter is used for working on.
You can use a soundstage to record music.
Something you find at a friend's house is a welcome.
Champagne is a great way to wet your mouth.
hard hats are used to protect your head.
You are likely to find a woodwind instrument in a music store.
People can save money.
Magnet Mart is a home improvement warehouse.
The mother-child bond is strong.
A joke can be bad.
water polo is a sport.
A pine forest is a pleasant place to take a long walk.
An eye is part of a face.
Sometimes debating politics causes you to get into an argument.
A sick person can throw up.
Hydrogen peroxide is a mild disinfectant.
You can use a choker to wear around your neck.
Something you find at a shop is food.
Doctors have cold hands.
A gallery is a building devoted to displaying art works.
You can use a pocket notebook to take notes.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to bed is you go to sleep.
sitting on a chair is for watching television.
Happiness is a difficult state to define.
You are likely to find a wife in a house.
Bicycles are used for exercise.
Manganese is an important trace element.
One of the things you do when you love someone is feel empathy for their experience.
You are likely to find a diamond in a jewelry store.
Some rooms are bedrooms.
Social construction is an area of sociology.
a school is for teaching.
sunglasses protect your eyes from bright lights.
beer is the oldest alcoholic beverage of humankind.
A living room is a comfortable place to visit with friends.
Birds eat seeds.
cereal is often eaten for breakfast.
You can use a sound to annoy someone.
If you want to cook dinner then you should buy groceries.
You are likely to find a bowl in a kitchen.
Something that might happen as a consequence of running a marathon is sweating.
If you want to lose weight then you should drink more water.
one second is a unit of time equal to one sixtieth of a minute.
The last thing you do when you buy fresh fruits and vegetables is pay for them.
The effect of attending a lecture is sleep.
You are likely to find a doll in a child's toys.
A marble is a round object used in a game.
moving a car requires force.
You are likely to find friends in school.
a person wants to live life.
The last thing you do when you clean clothing is press it.
You are likely to find a cow in a butcher shop.
improving your image requires a makeover.
If you want to receive a degree then you should study very hard.
A hotel is a large building with many bedrooms.
Brasilia is the capital of Brazil.
Something you find at an art show is picture frames.
Horse jumping is an Olympic sport.
A Democrat doesn't want a Republican to be president.
people are for socializing with.
Something you find at a bus depot is a passenger.
The effect of chopping firewood is that you have firewood to burn.
Nylon is a reliable piece of clothing.
a person doesn't want to take a test.
Americans do not eat dogs.
a person doesn't want to feel hated.
Something you might do while painting a house is climbing a ladder.
If you want to go to bed then you should put on your pajamas.
The first thing you do when you write a term paper is select a topic.
a subway stop is a good place to catch a subway train.
rain is a type of weather.
a person wants to be moral.
If you want to get clean then you should have a shower.
Love is made of sharing and caring.
If you want to run a marathon then you should do a lot of training.
Croatia is in Europe.
The first thing you do when you exercise is warm up.
Vegetables are not sweet.
liter is a metric measurement.
Something you find in New Jersey is the turnpike.
peanut butter is made of peanuts.
Black holes are extremely dense massive objects.
You can use a writing case to carry pens.
The Internet is a network of networks.
playacting is a cultural activity.
The Dallas Cowboys are a football team.
Alienation pervades culture.
going to a play is for cultural experience.
waiting tables is for earning tips.
The last thing you do when you watch TV is turn it off.
a person wants a good relationship.
Something you find in the kitchen is a dirty dish.
A kitchen is a place for food preparation.
A guanine is part of a DNA.
Something you find at a library is whispering people.
Nails are hard scales that grow at the ends of your fingers.
Archie is a database and related programs giving the user information about the contents of various archives.
You are likely to find a beauty salon in the mall.
You are likely to find a state highway in a state.
If you want to get clean then you should take a shower.
Something you find in the garage is a truck.
a desert is a place.
Watching Wimbledon would make you want to play tennis.
The moon is generally radiant.
the capital of Djibouti is Djibouti.
Something you find in a quandary is confusion.
going to a film is for dating.
A stone is another word for a rock.
Statistical multiplexing is a spatial aggregation mechanism.
You are likely to find a church central passage in a church.
a community can judge their leader.
Corn is a major staple food for many people on earth. It comes in many varieties and colors.
You can use a wok to fry food.
going outside for an evening is for looking at the stars.
Weasels are animals.
Humanity wants to know.
Horses are expensive pets.
Something you find at a motel is a night clerk.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in the Gulf of Mexico.
You are likely to find a block of flats in England.
running after the ball is for catching the ball.
Something you find in a casino is cards.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing a harp is you may be bad at it.
The moon is not on earth.
Something you find on the street is oil.
Something you need to do before you knit is buy yarn and needles.
blenders is made of metal.
One of the things you do when you stop your bicycle is put your foot out.
a bicycle is a two wheeled, self-propelled vehicle.
coffee is generally brown.
A receptionist can page a guest.
Something you find at the market is frozen foods.
staying fit is for health.
Sometimes sewing causes needle pricks.
a cloud can hide the sun.
You can use a verb to describe an action.
Dogs are very loyal animals.
the world is made of atoms.
Something you find in football is a referee.
the frontal lobe is part of the brain.
One of the things you do when you have an epileptic fit is convulse.
A bathroom is part of some dwellings.
Something you find at a shop is a cashier.
computers can cost money.
Something that might happen when you go to a party is drink alcohol.
A bedroom is part of some dwellings.
a person doesn't want chapped lips.
An arch is a structural element noted for its strength and beauty.
Elm is a kind of tree.
Something you find at an airport is floors.
a knife can cut an apple.
an action figure is sometimes a doll.
One of the things you do when you learn is internalize concepts.
an avenue is usually a wide street.
You would paint a picture because you are an artist.
Ordinary phosphorus is a waxy white solid.
All black holes occupy zero volume.
Manganese is a gray-white metal.
You would play Frisbee because you want to have fun.
An activity a robot can do is assemble a car.
black holes are often in the center of a galaxy.
You are likely to find a wedding ring in a church.
a teacher wants to teach.
tea is used for drinking.
A moose is an animal that you would definitely want to avoid hitting on the highway.
Hydrogen peroxide is a powerful oxidizer that looks like water.
a guitar is used for songwriting.
children dress in costumes on Halloween.
Cookies are also known as biscuits.
PT-141 is a synthetic copy of MSH.
Sometimes following a recipe causes good food to happen.
Sol is the name of the sun.
The first thing you do when you rest is lie down.
Henry is a man's name.
a Star is made of hydrogen, helium, and trace amounts of heavy elements.
A dragon is a mythological reptilian monster.
You would go to a concert because you want to see the band.
a tourmaline is a precious stone.
A model is a generalized form.
Silica is a compound of silicon and oxygen.
New Hampshire is part of the United States of America.
conquering your opponent is for showing your own strength.
becoming inebriated is for relaxation.
A circle is a conic section.
crabapple is a kind of tree.
dentists work in dental offices.
Something that might happen as a consequence of going to a baseball game is you catch a foul ball.
Halloween is a bad holiday because it is when some people celebrated Satan.
Sometimes surprising someone causes laughter.
Hardness is a mechanical property.
a royal flush is very rare.
a printer is for printing documents.
aspen is a kind of tree.
a Star is created by gravity.
Something you find in a container is coffee.
Cross country skiing is a very popular sport in northern climates.
Something you might do while spitting is slap yourself for being a pig.
a person is used for life.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in ocean water.
A set is a kind of collection of distinct objects.
an advertising panel is for advertising.
California is part of the U.S.
some games are played outside.
a tower is a tall structure with stairs.
Something that might happen as a consequence of shouting at the top of your voice is your throat hurts.
Canada is generally cold.
You are likely to find a telephone index in a phone book.
the human body is made of molecules.
Something you find in the Arctic is Inuits.
Emotion is part of a Mind.
You are likely to find a toy soldier in a child's bedroom.
learning requires time.
You are likely to find a ballpoint pen in an office.
Something you find at dinner is the main course.
cereal is part of breakfast.
an arena is used for competitions.
The effect of going to a party is getting drunk.
You are likely to find a shark in saltwater.
People can be in love.
You can use a ledger to calculate expenses.
Being a judge would make you want to judge someone.
You are likely to find a potato in a produce store.
humans are generally conscious.
You would study for a test because you want to pass the test.
You are likely to find a store refrigerator in a supermarket.
The effect of stars is radiant heating.
Statistics is a branch of mathematics.
You would listen because you want information.
Babies are innocent.
You would learn guitar because you want chicks.
The effect of scoring a home run is a point for your team.
You are likely to find corpses in a cemetery.
some people have red hair.
You would light a fire because you want to have heat.
One of the things you do when you kiss is touch lips.
a person doesn't want to get sunburned.
The world is a small place.
Something you might do while making it grow is use miracle-gro.
then you should become a judge.
Marriage is a union between two people.
If you want to see your favorite show then you should buy a ticket.
People sometime study in the library.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in the Monterey Bay Aquarium.
Something that might happen while kissing is you catch a cold.
You are likely to find a potato in chips.
One of the things you do when you stand up is flex your leg muscles.
You would watch television because you want to see a cartoon.
A mother can be feeding her child.
Something you find at a zoo is children.
You are likely to find a subway station in the big city.
a gallery is for showing works of art.
You are likely to find an underground area in subway.
The effect of giving a plug is more sales.
You can use a food store to buy drinks.
a street is used for travel.
adult humans have 32 teeth.
Something that might happen as a consequence of playing baseball is you get dirty.
vinyl can be cold.
eating ice cream requires no special skills.
a sea is a large body of water.
going to a party is for Getting Drunk.
Listening requires having ears.
One of the things you do when you kiss someone is pucker your lips.
The first thing you do when you hear the news is listen.
adding up numbers requires many fingers and toes.
You would go jogging because you want to get some exercise.
a monument is for Remembering.
If you want to improve yourself then you should read books.
Some devices are too complex for practical use.
taking a break requires time out.
some dolls have yarn for hair.
If you want to get to the front of the line then you should wait patiently.
You are likely to find popcorn in a movie theater.
a tree is used for a wind break.
Something that might happen while competing against someone is you loose.
You are likely to find a fungus in humid climates.
You are likely to find a potato in the oven.
Something you might do while hanging out at the bar is have a drink.
Something you find in the fridge is cheese.
a supermarket is used for weekly shopping.
You would go to the mall because you need to buy clothes.
You are likely to find a bald eagle in New York.
Most modern cars have radios.
a fact is true.
Something you might do while running is listen to music.
a horse can jump a barrier.
Something that might happen as a consequence of reading a letter is writing a letter.
If you want to play chess then you should find an opponent.
Searching for information would make you want to surf the web.
lighting a fire is for cooking.
A ruler can be in the office.
Dogs love to play with people.
You are likely to find a gazelle in a savanna.
a person doesn't want to hear bad news from a doctor.
Somewhere moldy food can be is in a refrigerator.
An inspiration would make you want to create an idea.
A cup is used for holding coffee.
Something you find in the closet is a monster.
You would go for a swim because you want to get some exercise.
a salesman can offer a deal.
Something you find in the cellar is dust.
a binder holds papers.
Something you might do while pleasing your parents is cleaning your room.
Sweating would make you want to wash clothes.
You are likely to find an air terminal in a big city.
a book is used for developing perspective.
humans can love.
fiddling requires practice.
Something you find at an opera is rich people.
making a better world is for our children.
humans use tools.
You would knit because you want to make a sweater.
You are likely to find a chess rook in a chess game.
A boxer is a kind of dog.
You are likely to find a senior in a high school.
Fire extinguishers put out fires.
a cloud can block the sun.
a work of art is for appreciation.
going to the store is for buying clothes.
You are likely to find a koala in a jungle.
If you want to read a newspaper then you should find a newspaper.
Something you might do while examining a thing is study it.
a person wants to sing.
Something you might do while buying a house is test the plumbing.
Something you might do while going jogging is running.
Something you need to do before you go to school is take a shower.
watching television requires a television.
You are likely to find a mandolin in a music store.
Somewhere bicycles can be is in the park.
You are likely to find a chain in a hardware store.
Something you need to do before you pray is kneel.
You would take a bath because you stink.
Something you might do while playing chess is move the queen.
Golf clubs are popular with men.
The first thing you do when you take a bath is take clothes off.
finding information requires a search.
Something you find at the beach is dogs.
You are likely to find a sloth in jungle trees.
a supermarket is for buying produce.
You would play chess because you enjoy the challenge.
Water is a chemical.
The effect of waiting tables is earning tips.
A man can fancy a woman.
Something that might happen as a consequence of doing some exercises is muscle growth.
a person wants to sleep at night.
You are likely to find a village in a countryside.
Somewhere everything can be is in the universe.
You are likely to find a marmot in north America.
clouds float in the sky.
Something you find in the freezer is frozen vegetables.
Dynamite can explode.
politics would make you want to wage war.
Computer disks can have viruses on them.
A voice can be loud.
If you want to think then you should relax.
a ticket is usually printed on paper.
Smoking cigarettes is bad for your health.
If you want to procreate then you should have a mate.
You would have a bath because it feels good.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking an exam is you receive a grade.
lying is for manipulating.
Something that might happen while going on a vacation is getting sunburned.
The two moons of Mars are Phobos and Deimos.
a container can is for storing coffee.
The first thing you do when you attend a meeting is greet everyone present.
software is used for processing information.
You would join the army because you want to protect your country.
a drive is used for storing data.
Something you find at a park is tennis courts.
Plankton exist in the sea.
Sometimes diminishing your own hunger causes you to get more comfortable.
making a better world is for creating a better place for children.
A tropical fish.
A gift box can contain surprises.
One of the things you do when you buy something is pay for it with money.
trains are noisy.
Nazism is a type of political ideology.
The effect of having a shower is being wet.
Something that might happen while attending a rock concert is screaming.
You would go into a coma because you have head injury.
washing your hands requires water and soap.
a person wants soft skin.
You are likely to find a queen in a palace.
Chevrolets are types of cars.
You are likely to find a stage border in a theatre.
a person doesn't want an ingrown toenail.
pepper and salt is for flavoring food.
Something that might happen when you eat ice cream is you enjoy the taste.
Jesus can shoulder the cross.
A woman can part her hair.
fire can hurt people.
a sword is like a very long knife.
Something you might do while visiting other countries is learn a new language.
You are likely to find jewelry in a department store.
You are likely to find a rosebush in a park.
If you want to be in charge of a project then you should have leadership skills.
a person doesn't want to get fired.
Life goes on.
Something that might happen when you program is you make an error.
If you want to have food then you should grow an organic garden.
You are likely to find trash in a bin.
Sometimes competing against someone causes stress.
Light travels 186,000 miles in a second.
One of the things you do when you cool off is calm down.
You are likely to find a theater hall in a big city.
A couch potato watches TV.
a plunger is for the toilet.
The first thing you do when you have friends over is welcome them.
You are likely to find a pail in a barn.
a person doesn't want a nuclear war.
Armageddon is the end of the world.
Something you might do while attending a lecture is sleep.
Something you might do while fencing is feinting.
a desk is a type of table.
Gold is shiny.
An arc is part of a circle.
A person can place an object.
You would cool off because you want to feel more comfortable.
sunglasses can shade your eyes from the sun.
Something you find at an art show is works of art.
A hen can mother her chicks.
You are likely to find a piece of coal in a mine.
trophies are awards for excellence.
Toothpicks are made of wood.
Something that might happen as a consequence of checking vital signs is you become concerned.
a person doesn't want to fall down a flight of stairs.
an eating place is for consuming nourishment.
An athlete can attempt to break a world record.
You are likely to find a bus stop in a town.
One of the things you do when you play a game of chess is shake hands with an opponent.
The first thing you do when you board a plane is show your ticket.
reading the newspaper is for getting information.
You can use salt to kill a slug.
A lake is used for sailing on.
Something you need to do before you go for a swim is learn to swim.
playing a game would make you want to conquer your opponent.
A cat wants a nap.
monkeys can be hanging from trees.
Something you might do while buying products is compare prices.
Something you find in the mail box is a package.
a general ledger is for accounting.
a person is for loving.
You are likely to find a line in a store.
concern would make you want to hear the news.
Singers use microphones to amplify their voices.
You would eat healthily because you want to live long.
Sometimes farting causes embarrassment.
Money circulates.
Something you find at an apartment is roommates.
One person can wear a pair of pants.
a person doesn't want diarrhea.
couches are comfortable.
The last thing you do when you fix a computer is test it.
people can laugh at each other.
Sometimes expressing information causes resentment.
a key is used for locking.
If you want to play ball then you should go to the park.
The first thing you do when you attend a meeting is take a seat.
You would find information because you want to do a job.
You can use a call to contact someone.
all children have parents.
You can use a paper menu to order food.
Something you find at a friend's house is a kitchen.
You would enjoy the company of your friends because they are your friends.
You are likely to find a heifer in a corral.
meeting a friend requires setting a time and place.
A person can milk a cow.
an electric toothbrush is used for brushing teeth.
If you want to wait on line then you should find the line.
going to the pub is for having a beer.
a child can ask questions.
Something you might do while getting some physical activity is get tired.
You are likely to find a divider in a notebook.
The internet is an amazing research tool.
horses are graceful.
People smoke tobacco. It is bad for your health.
Sometimes watching a film causes you to cry.
Something that might happen while cooking a curry is cooking rice.
a mechanic works on cars.
If you want to travel then you should save money.
You can use a pantry to store food.
Something you might do while sleeping is fall out of bed.
If you want to bake a cake then you should read the recipe.
a person wants to meet other people.
If you want to buy products then you should get money.
You are likely to find a ferret in a hutch.
If you want to move a car then you should call a tow truck.
You are likely to find an entranceway in a building.
walking is for the health of it.
matter is energy.
Something that might happen while bringing suit is you hire an attorney.
a person doesn't want water pollution.
You are likely to find a sale in a K-Mart.
You are likely to find a chesterfield in the living room.
If you want to read a magazine then you should turn the pages.
a telephone room is used for storing a telephone.
Something that might happen while riding a bike is changing gears.
a hall is for walking down.
Something you find at the bottom of the sea is the seabed.
xylophone is a musical instrument.
Something that might happen while writing a letter is running out of ink.
a brass instrument is for playing.
cleaning the house is for preparing for guests.
A gardener can pick flowers.
You are likely to find a blowfish in the pacific ocean.
Something you might do while following a recipe is make food.
An activity a frog can do is leap.
Something you find in a suitcase is panties.
The effect of reaching an advantage is to be ahead.
advertisers can market products.
You are likely to find a man in a store.
You can use a handle to open a door.
You can use a woods to camp in.
testing your strength is for showing off.
You are likely to find a book end in a book shelf.
You are likely to find an apple tree in the park.
A man can iron clothes.
Most light bulb filaments are made of tungsten.
Something you find at an apartment is a bathroom.
Something you might do while eating breakfast is chew food.
Some people are NOT thin.
Something that might happen while playing soccer is falling down.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying something is spending money.
Something that might happen when you calculate things quickly is a mistake.
You can use an air conditioner to cool your house.
You can use a bicycle to travel long distances.
One of the things you do when you play cards is count.
a changing room is used for trying on clothes.
eating a hamburger is for satisfying hunger.
flying in an airplane requires fuel.
onions grow in gardens.
a person wants to learn new things.
You can use god to support superstition.
Something that might happen when you teach other people is they learn about flowers.
Something you find at a table is a napkin.
A car can roll downhill.
an artist can shade a drawing.
You are likely to find a glue in a desk drawer.
Something you might do while breathing some fresh air is breathe deeply.
Something you find on the Internet is web sites.
If you want to change your appearance then you should seek professional help.
Something you find in the loft is mice.
If you want to pay by check then you should sign it.
The plural of cowboy is cowboys.
You are likely to find a bookstore in a mall.
If you want to weed the garden then you should pull weeds.
a ribbon is for Wrapping presents.
If you want to be put on the stand then you should be a witness.
fire can damage things.
Something that might happen as a consequence of writing a story is having it be read.
bird's eggs are fragile.
You are likely to find a pillow case in the bed.
Sometimes painting a picture causes brushes to get messed up.
a lunch break would make you want to sate your hunger.
Something that might happen as a consequence of scratching is stopping an itch.
If you want to cash in then you should sell your stock.
Something you might do while doing a crossword puzzle is think.
You can use a linen closet to store sheets and towels.
You would exercise because you want to be fit.
a soprano is used for singing the high notes.
A salad bowl holds salad.
Something you find at your house is air.
golden retrievers are friendly dogs.
dental floss cleans teeth.
Something you find in a box is keepsakes.
Something you find on the table is place mats.
roosters have combs.
Something you might do while surprising someone is yell.
children are cute.
Something you might do while adding up numbers is count your fingers.
You would go to a film because you like movies.
striking a match is for lighting a cigarette.
Something you need to do before you go to market is have money.
Something that might happen as a consequence of weeding the garden is you get better tomatoes.
Some species of turtles can live for over 100 years.
getting exercise is for health.
sugar dissolves in water.
Something that might happen as a consequence of writing is writers' cramp.
Sometimes spitting causes annoyment.
Somewhere a fan can be is in a football stadium.
Something you find at home is rest.
An activity writer can do is write a novel.
A cabinet is a type of furniture.
attending a lecture requires desire.
One of the things you do when you have a rest is sit down.
fabric is for furniture covering.
a good boat can weather any storm.
A person can go to the mountains.
a revolution can be ending a reign.
booze would make you want to reach a tentative agreement.
a man and a woman snow skiing.
Something that might happen while fighting war is people are hurt.
going to bed is for getting rest.
The effect of going to a performance is fun.
a monocle is used for seeing.
Sometimes reading the newspaper causes mild amusement.
Something you need to do before you spit is gather saliva in your mouth.
One of the things you do when you get wet is dry off.
You are likely to find the Moon in the night sky.
One of the things you do when you attend a rock concert is enjoy the music.
a registry office is for registering.
You would swim because you want to save your life.
A cat can watch a mouse.
Cartoons are often shown on cable TV.
Ten dimes equal one dollar.
Something that might happen while running is you trip over a wiener dog.
You are likely to find a theater hall in THE CITY.
the clarinet is a wind instrument that plays music.
The first thing you do when you read a newspaper is read the headlines.
releasing your energy requires energy to be released.
A laser is a device which creates coherent light.
Something that might happen while learning is you get hungry.
groucho marx is dead.
Something that might happen when you meet interesting people is you grow.
Something you find at the library is fiction and non-fiction books.
Something that might happen when you flirt is your dog gets jealous.
Something you might do while finding information is read.
Something you might do while going to a performance is worry about your dog.
Hot air rises.
Something that might happen while growing vegetables is a pumpkin grows.
You would scratch because you itch.
resting requires free time.
Orange juice contains vitamin C.
You would pass your university exams because you want to move on.
visiting a museum is for learning history.
Something you might do while looking through a telescope is take pictures.
Something you find in a car is riders.
having a family would make you want to buy a house.
going on a vacation is for enjoyment.
Something you might do while reading to your children is make silly noises.
there are many religions in the world.
a brewery can bottle beer.
You are likely to find a hairdressing salon in a mall.
the need for improvement would make you want to create an idea.
painting is art.
playing a harp requires slender fingers.
Something you might do while taking a walk is bring your dog.
a first violin is used for playing music.
a person doesn't want to be mistreated.
Sometimes changing your appearance causes shock.
reading a magazine is for education.
Something that might happen when you knit is yarn becomes fabric.
Something you might do while planning a vacation is read maps.
changing society requires more reasonable people.
If you want to maintain good health then you should get some exercise.
Something that might happen when you drill a hole is you make wood shavings.
Something that might happen while getting in shape is you give up.
a loan lends someone money.
You can use a cigarette to burn someone.
a person wants influence.
You would have an epileptic fit because you have epilepsy.
Something that might happen as a consequence of taking the bus is getting to your destination.
scoring a homer requires a corked bat.
A red traffic light would make you want to stop your car.
If you want to bathe then you should fill the bath tub.
dressing nice is for special occasions.
a person doesn't want an unfaithful lover.
Sometimes playing the piano causes inspiration.
a tape recorder can record that sound.
sleeping pills would make you want to go to sleep.
Some people have snobbish personalities.
The effect of walking the dog is exercise and companionship.
A plunger is used to unclog a drain.
You would punch someone because you want to get punched back.
ice is for chilling something.
The effect of looking through a telescope is seeing outer space.
Something you might do while expressing information is use hand gestures.
Something you might do while scoring a homer is hit a baseball.
a heater can heat a room.
If you want to make a shopping list then you should get a pencil and paper.
If you want to stand up then you should use your legs.
common sense would make you want to wash clothes.
The effect of buying presents for others is joy.
Something that might happen when you eat a cookie is you enjoy the taste.
a prosthesis is for replacing a limb.
your job would make you want to get up early.
Many people die in war.
Something you might do while visiting a museum is admire art.
Something you find in class is a chalkboard.
a sheet is for sleeping under.
a coach can time a runner.
Sometimes riding a bike causes thirst.
film is a great way of preserving past and ideas.
enjoying a film requires appreciation of movies.
a lawyer presents a case to a jury.
You would kiss someone because you want to show love.
You are likely to find a prison in a town.
visiting a museum requires the price of admission.
A door is used for separating rooms.
A customer can pay their bills.
Something you find on the subway is a subway token.
Sometimes convicting a suspect for a crime causes closure.
Sometimes buying presents causes happiness.
You would live a life because you want to help people.
A straight flush is the best hand in poker.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying something is you bounce a check.
The first thing you do when you hear singing is listen.
Something that might happen when you find a lost item is you get excited.
magazines are printed on paper.
Something you might do while beginning work is put on your work clothes.
a family room is used for watching television.
a barber comb is used for cutting hair.
Brazil is the largest country in South America.
interest would make you want to watch a film.
making bread requires an oven.
Something you might do while going fishing is eat gummy worms.
An insect has 6 legs.
Something you might do while making bread is have fun.
You would hear the news because you want to know.
Babies cry often.
Something you find in the countryside is a farmhouse.
books have information.
You are likely to find a calculator in an office.
If you want to see a particular program then you should buy a ticket.
an explosive is for destroying something.
Something you need to do before you eat breakfast is brush your teeth.
hearing testimony is for judges.
You would analyze something because you want to know.
a glass can contain water.
The effect of going to a sporting event is to have fun.
A bishop is part of a chess set.
a fluoride toothpaste is for whitening teeth.
a bus pass is used for riding a bus.
Something that might happen while waiting on tables is you earn a tip.
people can donate money to charity.
starting a family requires you to have fun.
an ocean contains water.
looking through a telescope is for astronomers.
A beverage is for drinking.
You would give a clue because you want them to guess.
The first thing you do when you plan a vacation is choose a destination.
going to see a film is for having fun.
Birds can be beautiful.
You can use a mug to drink beer.
A couple is two.
A queen is part of a chess set.
a ribbon is used for tying a bow.
You can use a spray hose to water the garden.
opening a gift is for surprise.
Some bands are eclectic.
girls are young females.
sweaters are made of wool.
Something that might happen when you get a contract is you make money.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying presents for others is spending your money.
You are likely to find a man in bed.
If you want to get in line then you should go to the end of the line.
You are likely to find a paper punch in school.
a paper clip is for keeping papers together.
a bomb is used for destroying things.
Paper is made of wood pulp.
a person wants a perfect world.
Trains travel tracks.
You are likely to find a clock in your own bedroom.
fire can burn forest.
a dog can mark a tree.
classical music is often relaxing.
Something you find in the cupboard is canned goods.
Counting requires a numerical system.
a sailor can board a ship.
You can use an ergonomic chair to sit comfortable.
Sometimes going to a performance causes joy.
a piccolo is a wind instrument.
There is no sound in a vacuum.
You are likely to find an appointment book in a desk.
A shopping mall is a place to buy things.
Sitcoms are TV shows.
our galaxy is large.
Wanting to pass a class would make you want to take final exams.
Birds swim on water.
skin is for Protecting the body.
Spoons are used to eat liquids.
a person wants health.
You would go for a run because you want to get in shape.
You are likely to find a restaurant bill in your table.
You are likely to find a potato in a refrigerator.
Something you find in a park is a chipmunk.
a person wants love and affection.
a trumpet is for playing taps.
attending a lecture is for Learning.
You are likely to find a pike in a river.
The effect of listening to the radio is hearing music.
Something you find at a demonstration is picketers.
The effect of going see a film is entertainment.
If you want to open a gift then you should remove the ribbon.
Sometimes going jogging causes heart attacks.
eating in a fast food restaurant requires a cast iron stomach.
Something you might do while calculating things quickly is concentrate.
a restaurant dining area is used for eating.
a window curtain is used for covering a window.
You would see exhibits because you want to learn.
money would make you want to fix a computer.
Yorkshire is a county.
A DNA is part of a chromosome.
a theatre is not used for travel.
having fun would make you want to live a life.
Something you find on a freeway is an automobile.
Finches have large, powerful beaks.
Something that might happen as a consequence of winning a baseball game is you feel good.
Siamese is a breed of cat.
a person doesn't want to lose his mind.
A thymine is part of a DNA.
You would fix a computer because you want to work.
skiing requires poles.
plants can bloom.
some students go to high school.
Something you find behind the fridge is an electrical outlet.
a ticket is for Speeding.
If you want to awake then you should be asleep.
You are likely to find a bank in a vault.
exams require studying.
Some animals live in burrows underground.
If you want to change your appearance then you should get plastic surgery.
Something you find at a school is a bathroom.
A horse is a beautiful creature.
Something you find at a neighbor's house is your friend.
a person doesn't want a cold sore.
You are likely to find a bee in a pumpkin patch.
One of the things you do when you send email is type.
Something you might do while passing a class is take a test.
Something you find in the backseat of a car is passengers.
A nose has two nostrils.
leather is tanned animal skin.
If you want to breathe then you should stop smoking.
a fountain is for decoration.
Something you find at the beach is sunshine.
You are likely to find a snake in Kansas.
You are likely to find a chair in a furniture store.
You are likely to find a balcony in a theater.
a stall is for a horse.
a storm is for raining.
You would wash your clothes because you're on your way to an interview.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in a vet's office.
All followers have leaders.
Evian can bottle water.
Something you find at the repair shop is broken things.
hair in your eyes would make you want to go to get a haircut.
You would exercise because you want to become better.
An activity a cook can do is cook.
You are likely to find a viola in an orchestra.
Something that might happen when you go to a concert is listen to loud music.
Something you might do while painting a picture is mix paints.
Something that might happen as a consequence of diminishing your own hunger is you get fat.
reading is for learning new things.
Something you might do while playing basketball is make baskets.
You are likely to find a heifer in a stall.
plants usually grow in soil.
Game playing would make you want to have a party.
hitting the bottle requires a bottle.
a person wants all kinds of things.
a brick row house is used for people to live in.
a movie ticket is for getting into the movies.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having a haircut is using less shampoo.
Something you find in the refrigerator is pickles.
Going out for dinner would make you want to tape a television show.
taking a bath is for washing.
You are not likely to find a ferret on or in a jungle.
You are likely to find a backdrop in a theatre.
Something you might do while playing cards is cheat.
a dining room is for eating meals.
You would decide a criminal's fate because you want justice.
A design is a way of showing something.
Something you find at a show is movies.
a person wants dignity.
The last thing you do when you paint a picture is hang it on a wall.
Something you find in a backpack is camping supplies.
The last thing you do when you buy products is pay for them.
Something that might happen when you fix a computer is the computer gets fixed.
You would ride a bike because you want to exercise.
If you want to do some exercises then you should wear comfortable clothes.
Gossip can spread rumors.
a launching platform is for launching.
To understand the event "Fred was thinking of buying a motorcycle.", it is important to know that A motorcycle is a vehicle.
Cipro is an antibiotic used for a wide range of bacterial infections.
One of the things you do when you read is learn new things.
If you want to complain about the state of the world then you should write a letter to the editor.
You are likely to find a cocktail cabinet in a bar.
COM is an acronym for Component Object Model.
An attorney can prove a case.
You are likely to find a chain in a garage.
playing hockey requires a hockey stick.
children love toys.
a person doesn't want to be pushed.
Something you might do while obstructing justice is lie.
Something you might do while eating an apple is bite it.
Australia is a supplier of non-ferrous metals.
Kids love pets.
You are likely to find a jellyfish in the Red Sea.
Something you find at a roadblock is the cops.
s.
giving assistance is for helping others.
snow is used for making snowmen.
Something you find at a waterfall is rainbow.
Lithium is a solid only about half as dense as water.
People wear a pair of pants.
running is for exercise.
One of the things you do when you test the car is you drive it.
A throne is a special kind of chair.
One of the things you do when you watch a television show is look at the television.
Bacteria are everywhere.
adding up a column of numbers requires math skills.
a boy is a young person.
lighting a fire is for lighting the darkness.
You are likely to find a mouse in a grain silo.
McDonalds is a fast food Restaurant.
A garbage waste is material that is of no use to anyone.
Playing chess is for exercising the mind.
If you want to send e-mail then you should use a computer.
Birth is a special moment.
the surgeon can have to operate on his patient.
A duplex is a building which only has two apartments.
You are likely to find a lizard in a cage.
American football is a different sport from football elsewhere.
Something that might happen when you have an asthma attack is get short of breath.
Something you might do while watching a television show is fall asleep.
going to a performance is for socializing.
You are likely to find a ventilation system in a large building.
You can use a cup to hold a drink.
One of the things you do when you start a fire is strike a match.
A factory can produce cars.
people eat food in restaurants.
If you want to sing then you should open your mouth.
If you want to get wet then you should go for a swim.
Pencils are used to take notes.
Copper is a good electrical conductor.
You can use a store shelf to display a product.
If you want to cool off then you should take a swim.
a bottle is a type of container.
A car is an object with a high cost.
A lizard is an animal.
If you want to go into a trance then you should watch TV.
You can use a case of beer to drink.
Dungeons and Dragons is a game.
Orangina is an orange soda.
Something that might happen as a consequence of having an epileptic fit is you need more medications.
You would urinate because you want to avoid an accident.
A state is a position within a system.
sugar can be melted.
You are likely to find a fox in a burrow.
Lightning is an electrical charge.
running in a marathon is for athletes.
Something you find on a table is a pen.
communicating is for expressing ideas.
wallpaper is a type of covering for indoor walls.
Something that might happen when you take final exams is you succeed.
creating an idea is for scientists.
a person can iron pants.
Corn is a major crop in the Midwest of the United States.
You can use a bathtub to soak in.
If you want to bring home some fish then you should go fishing.
If you want to play tennis then you should have a racket and a ball.
A diner is a restaurant that is not very fancy or expensive.
Something you find in a park is other people outside enjoying themselves.
a finger can point at something.
listening to music requires hearing.
A singer wants to sing.
If you want to pay by check then you should have money in a banking account.
Something you find at a museum is exhibits.
playing poker requires an ante.
Lifting weights is a good way to build stamina.
You are likely to find a rosebush in a gardening catalog.
Something you might do while typing is think.
Times passes.
Salmon is a good food for humans.
You are likely to find a power screwdriver in the toolbox.
Hunger would make you want to eat breakfast.
You are likely to find a potato in the plate.
You are likely to find a shark in deep waters.
a recommendation would make you want to see a story.
a post office is used for sending letters.
eating breakfast requires a mouth.
A miracle is an event that is desirable but extremely improbable.
a crossroads is for changing direction.
eating an apple is for keeping the doctor away.
The Golden Gate Bridge is near San Francisco.
a large city shopping mall is a strange place when it's empty.
Ice is made of water.
a showroom is a place that showcases purchasable objects.
Rain is made of water.
Pittsburgh is a city in Pennsylvania.
Something you find in the jar is space.
Ink stains.
The last thing you do when you bathe is get dressed.
getting a contract requires trust.
jogging is for exercising.
A keyboard is part of a piano.
Something you find at dinner is a dinner plate.
People can ski on snow.
The effect of going to a concert is listening music.
Elizabeth ii is the queen of England.
You are likely to find a kitchenette in a house.
A living organism wants to reproduce.
Something you find at a carnival is a balloon.
You are likely to find a restaurant in town.
You are likely to find a pavement in a city.
You are likely to find Singapore in Asia.
Blackbird is a bird.
Left is the opposite of right.
doing housework requires work.
Singing is a good way to express yourself.
having children would make you want to make a better world.
Something that might happen as a consequence of hearing the news is depression.
Lions eat people.
You are likely to find a lizard in Australia.
carnivores eat animals.
Something you might do while eating dinner is use a fork.
You would watch a film because you want to be entertained.
a fruit is a type of food.
You are likely to find a suspension cable in a bridge.
Something you find on the shelf is a picture.
Something that might happen while running twenty six miles is you get a sunburn.
The first thing you do when you have an asthma attack is use the inhaler.
Something you need to do before you go to a rave is take drugs.
You are likely to find an eye in an eye socket.
an armchair is for relaxing in.
You are likely to find a snake in a cage.
a duck can be eaten.
A person can shout loudly.
A dioptometer is an instrument used to determine eye defects.
chopping firewood is for preparing for the winter.
One of the things you do when you leave your house is lock your door.
You are likely to find an anemone in an intertidal zone.
Something that might happen while listening is understanding.
People build buildings.
the bell is part of a trumpet.
Wisconsin is a State.
Something you might do while going on the internet is look for dogs.
a fluoride toothpaste is for preventing cavities.
You would create AI because you want to transcend the flesh.
soldiers can storm buildings.
Something that might happen when you wait in line is you chew gum.
If you want to write a letter then you should get a pen and paper.
Vermont is part of the United States of America.
advancing into battle requires a willingness to die.
putting on the stand requires court.
You are likely to find paper in a recycling bin.
One of the things you do when you clean yourself is dry yourself.
dark glasses is used for looking cool.
poker with the guys would make you want to play cards.
a person doesn't want to be late.
New Mexico is part of the United States of America.
Something you find at a gallery opening is a gaggle of art critics.
Something you might do while lying is blink your eyes.
Something you find at the farmer's market is a rutabaga.
a flute is used for creating music.
Something you find at the farmer's market is squash.
Something that might happen when you sleep at night is you wake up a lot.
Something you find in the countryside is a hill.
You are likely to find a marmot in the Northern Hemisphere.
Something you might do while seeing art is pay attention to details.
a quill brush is for painting.
You are likely to find a theater box in a theater.
One of the things you do when you walk is whistle.
Something you find at beach is suntan lotion.
One of the things you do when you live a life is die.
ducks can swim very well.
Trees are pulped for making paper.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in a city.
Something you might do while convicting a suspect for a crime is investigate.
Something you find at a home is an oven.
Sometimes walking causes blisters.
needing film would make you want to run errands.
You are likely to find an attribute in a person.
Sometimes attending school causes education.
booze would make you want to stay in bed.
a baseball ticket is for going to the game.
Something that might happen as a consequence of buying a house is debt.
People can catch colds.
Something you find at work is a desk.
You are likely to find a marmot in a tree.
Anybody can forget anything.
Ants are usually social insects.
a profit would make you want to cash in.
The first thing you do when you get a contract is read it.
Gardening is a hobby.
Something that might happen when you buy fresh fruits and vegetables is having to wait in line.
You would jog because you want to lose weight.
a person wants stable relationships with interesting people.
a chef can cook dinner.
a bus transports people.
jumping out of a window requires a lot of booze.
Something you find in the mail is magazines.
feeding your family is for Survival.
Something you find in a casino is security cameras.
The effect of painting is color.
Something you find at the movies is patrons.
Something that might happen while watching TV is you learn something.
lying is for deceiving.
Something that might happen while playing ball is the dog gets excited.
Something you find at a mall is lots of cars.
You are likely to find a computer user in a office.
People dance in parties.
Something you might do while going to an opera is bring a book.
You are likely to find a sale in a department store.
a plane can fly very fast.
scoring a home run is for a baseball player.
bees would make you want to run.
Something you find on the ground is a penny.
thinking is for deducing.
An armadillo is a type of mammal.
You would go for a run because you want to exercise your dog.
Families live in a home.
You are likely to find a locker room in a school.
You would read the newspaper because it is informative.
You can use a notebook to write a note.
a person doesn't want a mean boss.
a museum ticket is for entrance to a museum.
Bowling is a game played with a bowling ball and pins.
a shower door is used for keeping the bathroom from getting wet.
Something you find at a party is fun.
people believe in ideas.
Sometimes learning about a subject causes change.
dogs eat meat.
Something you find in the fridge is mustard.
You are likely to find a wiener dog in a dog kennel.
Something you might do while watching television is have a popcorn fight.
If you want to eat breakfast then you should buy food.
A film may be a movie.
You would get a job because you want money for food.
posting a message requires a stamp.
a person wants to feel joy.
If you want to score a home run then you should hit the baseball hard.
Something you might do while getting warm is wear mittens.
PRA and HD are genetic diseases of dogs.
You can use a gate to control access.
hearing the news requires listening.
luxury time would make you want to bathe.
acting would make you want to pretend.
A blade is part of a fan.
a banker works in a bank.
Something that might happen when you weed the garden is you lose track of time.
Sometimes meditation causes peace of mind.
More people own pianos than Theremins.
a person doesn't want to work too much.
The effect of diminishing your own hunger is eating a meal.
Koalas eat only eucalyptus leaves.
Somewhere a bone can be is in a museum.
Something you find at a war is dead soldiers.
Something you might do while enjoying a film is start a popcorn fight.
a problem would make you want to create an idea.
Frisbees are round.
The planets are beautiful.
running errands requires a plan.
You can use a city to live in.
A scale measures the weight of objects.
spitting is a dirty habit.
You would ski because you want to get wet.
Something you find at a car show is car lovers.
Something you might do while playing chess is make a mistake.
Something you find at a bowling alley is a clown shoes.
a tennis game is for sport.
You would knit because you want clothes.
You are likely to find a lens in a telescope.
Hacking is a cybercrime activity.
The last thing you do when you eat lunch is wipe your mouth with your napkin.
You are likely to find stacking chairs in an auditorium.
You are likely to find a lens in an eye.
You are likely to find a horse in Montana.
Sometimes going to a party causes a plan.
Something you find on a desk is a sticky pad.
Somewhere a baby can be is in the womb.
A double edged razor has two sharp sides.
a telephone book is for looking up someones address.
The first thing you do when you attend a lecture is find a seat.
wanting to impress yourself would make you want to prove your physical endurance.
humans have one head.
If you want to wash clothes then you should sort the clothes.
Something that might happen while playing hockey is you score.
Something that might happen while viewing a video is eating popcorn.
You are likely to find a wagon in a toy store.
resorts have pools.
Something you find on your finger is a nail.
If you want to get a job then you should read want ads.
You are likely to find a machine gun in an arsenal.
A book of music is open. There is a pointer laying on it.
One of the things you do when you conquer your opponent is defeat him.
You are likely to find a first class airline seat in an airplane.
A candle can be lit with a match.
You are likely to find a slave in poor countries.
Nuts have threads.
long messy hair would make you want to go for a haircut.
a doll is used for teaching children.
A bluebird is a kind of bird.
milk would make you want to eat a cookie.
Something you need to do before you buy a hamburger is order the hamburger.
Sometimes having fun causes joy.
Something you find at confession is forgiveness.
Sometimes attending a classical concert causes awe.
People can be mean.
Santa Claus is a legend.
Something you find on a desk is forms.
You would dream because you want to sleep.
Something you find on a desk is an address book.
Something that might happen while watching the evening news is depression.
You are likely to find a rented flat in London.
Something you might do while traveling is buy souvenirs.
a person doesn't want a friend to be hurt.
a horse can carry a person.
Something that might happen while driving a car is pressing the brake.
The effect of cleaning is nice surroundings.
Sometimes getting drunk causes vomiting.
monkey is a kind of mammal.
Something you find in the jar is an ointment.
Something you might do while taking the bus is transfer.
If you want to give a clue then you should drop a hint.
Something you find on the floor is crumbs.
If you want to walk in the rain then you should go outside.
You are likely to find a safety in numbers.
Something you find at an opera is an orchestra pit.
You are likely to find an island in the lake.
a bird is for watching.
You are likely to find a window curtain in a house.
Something that might happen when you write a story is you develop a character.
A group of women are having a meal in a restaurant.
eating a hamburger is for reducing hunger.
doctors work very hard.
Something you find at a bar is a customer.
You are likely to find a drawing room in a studio.
Something you find under water is a scuba diver.
using a television requires electricity and a cord.
The statue of Liberty was a gift to the United States from France.
gas is for running gas powered machines.
One of the things you do when you see exhibits is visit a museum.
Something that might happen as a consequence of waiting on line is you get mad.
The effect of having friends over is having social interaction.
Something you find under water is algae.
The human body is 98% water.
fear of getting beat up would make you want to run.
giving a plug is for promoting a book.
You would eat lunch because you want to satisfy your hunger.
Something you find on a desk is a glass of water.
people use a ladder to climb walls.
Something you might do while examining a thing is prod it.
going to the store is for shopping.
Something that might happen as a consequence of exercising is building muscles.
Sometimes seeing a story causes sadness.
love and devotion would make you want to propose to a woman.
If you want to agree with someone then you should nod your head.
farmland is for Planting crops.
testing your strength requires some form of measurement.
Insurance protects you from malpractice law suits.
The last thing you do when you kiss someone is smile.
sitting down is for relaxation.
Some dolls are ancient artifacts.
If you want to play the violin then you should find a violin.
Something you find at a park is play equipment.
Something you find in a room is a closet.
The effect of relaxing is feeling good.
a person doesn't want to be bullied.
An artist can draw someone.
the sun is setting in the west.
panic would make you want to calculate things quickly.
using a television is for learning the news.
If you want to eat a hamburger then you should cook a hamburger.
One of the things you do when you plan a vacation is make reservations.
calculating things quickly requires speed.
You would give a clue because you want someone to understand a puzzle.
Something you find at the opera is people.
You are likely to find a power screwdriver in a hardware store.
You are likely to find a hair roller in my hair.
You would hit the bottle because you want to get drunk.
You are likely to find a calendar pad in an office building.
a person doesn't want infection.
maintaining muscle strength is for maintaining health.
waiting tables is for serving food.
You are likely to find a laundry room in a house.
Something you find at the theater is loge seats.
The last thing you do when you stop standing in it is move.
Pepper and Salt are used to spice up food.
water flows in a stream.
vinyl is usually has a smooth surface.
You can use a locker room to shower.
a person wants to watch good movies.
a person doesn't want heartache.
The effect of going to school is learning a variety of facts.
a writing instrument is used for writing a letter.
preparing for a vote requires research.
A light bulb can burn out.
Sometimes attending class causes you to get good grades.
You are likely to find a verb in a dictionary.
Something you find at a train station is timetables.
You would thank someone because you are grateful.
An activity a person can do is run.
Something you find at a military base is a mess hall.
Groucho Marx was a comedian.
a broker can trade stock.
Something that might happen as a consequence of attending a rock concert is hearing music with rock in it.
The Internet presents several risks to privacy.
If you want to go for a swim then you should go into the water.
You are likely to find a ficus in books.
You would remember a phone number because you want to call the number later.
Something you find in the forest is an owl.
Something that might happen as a consequence of acting in a play is entertaining the audience.
floppy disks are obsolete.
You can use a barbershop to get a haircut.
The student can understand the lesson.
If you want to howl with laughter then you should listen to a joke.
Something you might do while answering questions is speak.
Something you find at a hotel is a bar.
Something you might do while going to school is edit the yearbook.
Something that might happen when you see a particular program is laughter.
People learn by reading.
Something you find at a conference is tables and chairs.
Something you might do while flying in an airplane is sleeping.
human beings need air to live.
riding a bicycle is for sport.
You are likely to find cigarettes in a gas station.
everything is made of atoms.
Having a daughter is a wonderful experience.
Something you find at a street corner is a stop light.
a football field is one hundred yards long.
You are likely to find a shopping center in a city.
Something you find in the corner is a naughty child.
Something that might happen as a consequence of purchasing a cellular phone is being available for phone calls.
People can govern themselves.
You would open a bag of chips because you want to eat chips.
Something you find on the ground is sand.
A student learns things from a teacher.
a gambler can lose money.
People can work in teams.
bus routes often take you to shops.
Ferns are a type of plant.
a person wants to be cool.
Sometimes waiting your turn causes impatience.
trees can shade the grass.
a person doesn't want to loose a friend.
blind people cannot see.
a needle is small.
People say things.
a tennis game is for fun.
a comedian wants to make people laugh.
If you want to conduct a trial then you should get a lawyer.
You can use a stick eraser to erase pencil marks.
A spectator can watch an event.
The effect of reading is a headache.
Something you find on the lawn is cutworms.
Something you need to do before you program is turn on the computer.
a car is used for fun.
You are likely to find a mouse at a computer.
A cashier can short his customer.
The last thing you do when you use a VCR is eject the tape.
a person doesn't want measles.
You would make people laugh because you want to cheer them up.
writing a poem is for expressing feelings.
Something you might do while opening a bag of chips is pull the sides apart.
Sometimes having a checkup causes you to be anxious.
Something you find on the subway is a map.
Something you need to do before you buy food is determine your needs.
having a bath is for pleasure.
Sometimes cleaning clothing causes dirt to be removed.
getting the latest hairstyle for a night out on the town requires going to a beauty parlor.
Something that might happen as a consequence of lighting a fire is the house burns down.
getting onto the web requires a connection and account.
Something you find at an apartment is stairs.
Something you find at a toy store is coloring books.
Something that might happen when you see a story is you might be entertained.
Something you might do while doing some exercises is breath heavily.
a person doesn't want to be screwed up.
You are likely to find an apple tree in Maine.
a person doesn't want to be robbed.
If you want to communicate then you should send smoke signals.
Something you find at work is a break room.
The effect of moving a car is changing its location.
a parlor is used for entertaining guests.
a person can reply to a question.
If you want to start a fire then you should rub two sticks together.
You can use a toilet to go potty.
You are likely to find a chess queen in a chess game.
You are likely to find a toilet in a hospital.
taping a television show is for Watching it later.
Something you find on the surface of the moon is the American flag.
You can use a ring to engage.
Something you find at a neighbor's house is beer.
a judge can decide a case.
cats catch mice.
One type of information is sheet music.
You can use a screwdriver to tighten loose screws.
humans hunt animals.
Sometimes stopping your bicycle causes you to skid.
You are likely to find a T-shirt in a chest of drawers.
going to the pub is for socializing.
A big boy can dress himself.
Something you need to do before you play a guitar is learn the chords.
going for a swim is for getting exercise.
Something you might do while going on the internet is learn.
tension on the strings determines the pitch of the guitar.
Something you might do while gardening is prune shrubs.
the universe is vast.
You are likely to find a shark in warm salt waters.
You would go jogging because you need exercise.
One of the things you do when you go for a drive is start the car.
Very few people love the government.
Sometimes going into a trance causes a religious experience.
Boats sometimes sink.
being bad would make you want to obstruct justice.
Something you find in a casino is beer.
You are likely to find a front garden in front of a house.
A horse can run quickly.
Something you might do while going to the hairdresser is flirting.
You are likely to find a tuba in a band.
You would move a car because you want to go somewhere.
the moon is round.
Rain would make you want to drive to work.
a blow dryer is for styling hair.
You are likely to find a beaver in a beaver lodge.
scoring a home run requires a ball.
shades is for blocking out light.
Something you might do while judging someone is sitting on a jury.
You can use nails to build a doghouse.
Undersea earthquakes can cause Tsunamis.
some Japanese can speak English.
Something you might do while having a heart attack is fall down.
televisions are used for entertainment and education.
a tearoom is for having tea.
Thomas Jefferson was a founding father.
a teacher wants interested students.
Something that might happen as a consequence of sending a criminal to prison is crowded prisons.
Sometimes skiing causes bones to break.
You would take an examination because you want to pass a class.
You are likely to find an orchestra seat in the theater.
You are likely to find a glass of water in the kitchen.
You are likely to find a bald eagle on a coin.
Penguins live in the Antarctic.
moving a car is for transportation.
robots do not have brains.
breathing is for getting air to your lungs.
paying tuition would make you want to pass a course.
Something you find in a breadbox is a loaf.
waiting tables is for earning money.
cars move.
A windy day would make you want to fly a kite.
Something that might happen when you listen to music is you feel emotions.
Dogs like to chase cars.
You are likely to find a grape in a bowl.
committing perjury is for obstructing justice.
tobacco can be smoked.
going jogging requires running shoes.
You would take a walk because you want to exercise your dog.
You are likely to find a brownstone in the city.
A person with a toothache wants to go to the dentist.
lightning is hot.
Something you find in the water is oxygen.
Indiana is a state.
Something you find on your desk is a paperweight.
biking is good for your health.
You are likely to find a government in Canada.
Some art is bad.
You are likely to find a horse in the Kentucky Derby.
Tennessee is a state.
Sometimes judging someone causes guilty feelings.
Some people need glasses to read.
Young mammals drink milk.
People love their pets.
Something you find at the opera is tuxedos.
a person wants equal pay for equal work.
Plants consume carbon dioxide.
A molecule is a collection of atoms.
If you want to go to school then you should bring your books.
Something you might do while changing society is change yourself.
IBM is a specific brand of pc.
If you want to fish then you should buy bait.
The effect of getting warm is sweating.
horses walk.
birds perch on trees.
A tourist can visit a museum.
my car is green.
You are likely to find an egg in a chicken.
wild animals are dangerous.
The effect of typing is creating a document.
You would conquer a nation because you're mean.
a court is used for playing basketball.
a person wants indoor plumbing.
Something you find with a search party is a lost hiker.
People ride horses for many reasons.
Something you might do while signing a contract is use a pen.
tight shoes cause pain.
baggage is used for holding clothes.
The sea is full of water.
A scale is used to measure things.
You are likely to find a dollar in a bank.
an animal can hear other voices.
Something you might do while paying cash is count it.
You would watch a film because you like the actors.
tortoises live over 100 years.
Buttons can be used to fasten clothing.
Most T-shirts are made of cotton.
One of the things you do when you buy a beer is drink beer.
Something that might happen as a consequence of listening to the radio is someone dances.
If you want to read a newspaper then you should learn to read.
music is for enjoyment.
Something you find at the bottom of the sea is under water.
writing a term paper is for aptitude assessment.
Something you find at a party is a big crowd of people.
a person wants to be believed.
You are likely to find a small dog in pet shop.
the statue of liberty is a present from France.
Something you need to do before you run twenty-six miles is train.
Advertisements can annoy you.
Prolog is a programming language.
Something that might happen as a consequence of eating in a restaurant is you spend money.
Something you might do while fixing a computer is take it apart.
Telephones allow for long distance communication.
October is the tenth month of the year.
Something you find in the street is a sewer.
breathing is for survival.
water is good for you.
a dog can dig up bones.
Love would make you want to buy something for a loved one.
Something you find at a movie is sound.
Bono is a singer.
A rubber duck is a tub toy.
Swiss army knives are handy.
Shoeshine boys can shine shoes.
Women give birth to babies.
You would send e-mail because you need to communicate.
meat comes from animals.
Hamlet is a famous character in a play.
cows make milk.
a merchant sells products.